Title: ISBN: 978-628-95207-8-1. ISSN: 2414-6390. Digital Object Identifier: 10.18687/LACCEI2024.1.1.695

Summary:

This paper addresses the central research challenge of the selected DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless networking domain. It focuses on how the proposed design or algorithm improves reliability, coverage, resource management, or performance for emerging URLLC, mMTC, or mesh-networked applications.

Problem and motivation:
Energy efficiency and spectrum efficiency have been identified by “IMT for 2020
and beyond” (International Mobile Telecommunications) as two of the current
wireless network capabilities that need substantial enhancement to satisfy the
exponential growth of IoT and high data rate applications. “Digital Enhanced
Cordless Telecommunications” (DECT) is the leading standard around the world for
cordless telecommunications and it has the great advantage to operate on a
“designated” license-free RF band (1880/1900 MHz in Europe). However, the
original DECT has very low energy efficiency and very low spectral efficiency,
and therefore, DECT is neither suitable for ultra-low energy applications nor
for high data rate multimedia streaming applications. The “European
Telecommunications Standards Institute” Technical Committee DECT (ETSI TC DECT)
is working on these two aspects, and it has proposed a new set of “Technical
Specifications” that enables DECT to support both ultra-low energy (DECT-ULE)
and high data rate (DECT-2020 New Radio) application domains. In this paper, we
introduce an energy consumption model for the DECT “Portable Part” (PP) that
lets us analyze in detail the operation of a PP in the “standby mode”. The model
lets us show that the simple reduction on the requirement of how often the PP
must monitor the “paging” beacon enables DECT for ultra-low energy applications.
We then show that the use of the state-of-the-art multi-carrier “Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing” (OFDM) modulation, and the spatial multiplexing
“Multiple Input Multiple Output” (MIMO) antenna technique, enables DECT for high
data rate multimedia streaming applications.

Approach and methods:
IMT-2020 [1] establishes the vision for mobile telecommunications for 2020 and
beyond based on the forecast that traffic volume and number of devices will
continue to grow exponentially. IMT-2020 points out eight current network
capabilities that should be enhanced to satisfy such demands: peak data rate,
user experienced data rate, latency, mobility, connection density, energy
efficiency, spectrum efficiency, and area traffic capacity. Spectrum efficiency
has a direct impact on data rate (peak and user experienced), connection
density, and area traffic capacity; and therefore, it is one of the most
important capabilities to enhance. Energy efficiency is crucial in the case of
battery-operated Internet of Things (IoT) devices since it has a direct impact
on battery lifetime. “Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications” (DECT) [2]
is the leading standard around the world for digital cordless telecommunications
and it has the great advantage to Digital Object Identifier: (only for full
papers, inserted by LACCEI). ISSN, ISBN: (to be inserted by LACCEI). DO NOT
REMOVE operate on a “designated” license-free RF band (in Europe, from 1880 MHz
to 1900 MHz). “Designated” meaning that no other technologies can be deployed in
the DECT band, as it is the case, for the highly congested Industrial,
Scientific and

Key findings:
s. II. IMT-2020 OVERVIEW The present section is mostly based on ITU Std. M.20830
[1] and all figures are reproduced from there with some highlights from us.
IMT-2020 [1] defines the framework and overall objectives of the International
Mobile Telecommunications for 2020 and beyond. Anticipating that users should be
able to access services anywhere, anytime, IMT-2020 recommends that IMT-2020
interwork with other radio systems such as Radio Local Area Networks (RLANs).
One of the worldwide well established RLANs is DECT [2]. A. Use Cases IMT-2020
is envisaged to support diverse use cases and applications that include [1]: •
Enhanced Mobile Broadband: This use case addresses human-centric scenarios for
mobile access to multimedia content, services, and data. • Massive Machine Type
Communications: This use case is characterized by a very large number of
connected devices typically transmitting a relatively low volume of non-delay
sensitive data. The devices are required to be low cost and have a very long
battery life. • Ultra-Reliable and Low Latency Communications: This use case has
stringent requirements for capabilities such as throughput, latency, and
availability. Some examples include wireless control of industrial manufacturing
or production processes, remote medical surgery, distribution automation in a
smart grid, transportation

Contributions and implications:
The work contributes practical insight for DECT-2020 NR and related next-generation wireless systems. It provides experimental or simulated evidence for the proposed scheme and highlights how the results support stricter reliability, lower latency, or improved resource utilization in private network or industrial IoT scenarios.