Title: 2022 Joint European Conference on Networks and Communications & 6G Summit (EuCNC/6G Summit): Wireless, Optical and

Summary:

This paper addresses the central research challenge of the selected DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless networking domain. It focuses on how the proposed design or algorithm improves reliability, coverage, resource management, or performance for emerging URLLC, mMTC, or mesh-networked applications.

Problem and motivation:
—ETSI DECT-2020 New Radio (NR) is a new flexible radio interface targeted to
support a broad range of wireless Internet of Things (IoT) applications. Recent
reports have shown that DECT-2020 NR achieves good delay performance and it has
been shown to fulfill both massive machine-type communications (mMTC) and ultra-
reliable low latency communications (URLLC) requirements for 5th generation (5G)
networks. A unique aspect of DECT-2020 as a 5G technology is that it is an
autonomous wireless mesh network (WMN) protocol where the devices construct and
uphold the network independently without the need for base stations or core
network architecture. Instead, DECT-2020 NR relies on part of the network
devices taking the role of a router to relay data through the network. This
makes deployment of a DECT-2020 NR network affordable and extremely easy, but
due to the nature of the medium access protocol, the routing responsibility adds
an additional energy consumption burden to the nodes, who in the IoT domain are
likely to be equipped with a limited battery capacity. In this paper, we analyze
by system level simulations the energy consumption of DECT-2020 NR networks with
different network sizes and topologies and how the reported low latencies can be
upheld given the energy constraints of IoT devices. Being a new technology,
DECT-2020 NR has not been extensively studied yet. In [1] the authors introduced
the DECT-2020 NR standard and evaluated its performance by comparing it to the
existing low-power wide-area network (LPWAN) solutions. The paper demonstrated
delay performance similar to existing solutions but with much higher node
densities. In [2] the standard was shown to fulfill the International
Telecommunication Union Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R) requirements for 5G
networks, but in [3] only a partial fulfillment of these requirements was
confirmed. These studies paid only little consideration to the energy required
to reach the presented level of performance. Only in [1] the issue was touched
by stating that a multi-hop network was more energy efficient than a single-hop
network when considering the amount of energy needed for transmissions. We will
demonstrate in this paper that this viewpoint is one-sided since the energy
consumption of a multi-hop mesh network is not limited to the transmissions.
Energy consumption of WMNs is a well-known problem covered by multiple studies
in recent years [5], [6]. Like [1], most of them consider the energy consumption
primarily as a routing problem, indicating that the energy is mostly consumed by
the device transmissions. However, unlike many earlier WMN technologies,
DECT-2020 NR uses state-of-the-art physical layer techniques, such as Cyclic
Prefix Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (CP-OFDM), turbo coding and
Hybrid ARQ (HARQ) with incremental redundancy which decrease the duration and
increase the energy efficiency of the transmissions, making the comparison to
old studies difficult and thus justifying the need for separate investigation on
DECT-2020 NR. This paper extends the WMN energy problem field of study by
exploring how the advanced features of DECT-2020 NR affect the WMN energy
consumption, whether different network topologies have an impact on this and
also whether the recently reported low latency capabilities of the new standard
can be upheld in typical IoT scenarios given the energy constraints of IoT
devices.

Approach and methods:
The DECT-2020 NR standard was released by the European Telecommunications
Standards Institute (ETSI) in 2020. It is intended for industrial Internet of
Things (IoT) applications requiring either massive machine-type (mMTC) and/or
ultra-reliable low latency (URLLC) communications. DECT-2020 NR introduces a
device-based wireless cluster-tree mesh network, capable of forming an
autonomous network without the need for separate base stations or core network.
Nodes can act as routers between their neighbors, forwarding data between them
in case direct connection is not possible. With wireless mesh networking (WMN)
the coverage can theoretically reach extreme distances with minimal costs and
effortless deployment. However, forwarding data through the network with a
reasonable delay requires that each node passing the data onwards has an
adequately active duty cycle, meaning the node can receive and transmit
reasonably often so that the delay requirements are met, and the data does not
accumulate in relaying nodes. However, maintaining an active duty cycle requires
energy resources which may be scarce if the network consists of battery-operated
nodes, as is common in the IoT domain. II. RESEARCH

Key findings:
S A system level simulation analysis of DECT-2020 NR confirms its good delay
performance with some notable constraints. A wide-range battery-operated mesh
network cannot maintain both long uptime and low latency. It was noticed that
rather than the actual transmissions, maintaining an active duty cycle to ensure
low latencies is the most important consumer of energy in a DECT-2020 NR mesh
network. In order to guarantee a reasonable network uptime, the duty cycle of
battery-operated mesh routers and, consequently, the requirements for traffic
delay should be low. For delay sensitive data, the alternative is to either use
mains powered routers or to use multiple sinks, covering the area solely with
star topologies, without the need for the network to resort to mesh mode at all.

Contributions and implications:
The work contributes practical insight for DECT-2020 NR and related next-generation wireless systems. It provides experimental or simulated evidence for the proposed scheme and highlights how the results support stricter reliability, lower latency, or improved resource utilization in private network or industrial IoT scenarios.