Title: Modeling DECT-2020 as a Tandem Queueing System and Its

Summary:

This paper addresses the central research challenge of the selected DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless networking domain. It focuses on how the proposed design or algorithm improves reliability, coverage, resource management, or performance for emerging URLLC, mMTC, or mesh-networked applications.

Problem and motivation:
Academic Editors: Leonid Piterbarg and Steve Drekic Received: 2 November 2025
Revised: 2 December 2025 Accepted: 20 December 2025 The Peak Age of Information
(PAoI) quantifies the freshness of updates used in cyberphysical systems (CPSs),
realized within the Internet of Things (IoT) paradigm, encompassing devices,
networks, and control algorithms. Consequently, PAoI is a critical metric for
real-time applications enabled by Ultra-Reliable Low Latency Communication
(URLLC). While highly useful for system evaluation, the direct analysis of this
metric is complicated by the correlation between the random variables
constituting the PAoI. Thus, it is often evaluated using only the mean value
rather than the full distribution. Furthermore, since CPS communication
technologies like Wi-Fi or DECT-2020 involve multiple processing stages,
modeling them as tandem queueing systems is essential for accurate PAoI
analysis. In this paper, we develop an analytical model for a DECT-2020 network
segment represented as a two-phase tandem queueing system, enabling detailed
PAoI analysis via Laplace–Stieltjes transforms (LST). We circumvent the
dependence between generation and sojourn times by classifying updates into four
mutually exclusive groups. This approach allows us to derive the LST of the PAoI
and determine the exact Probability Density Function (PDF) for M | M |1 → M | M
|1 system. We also calculate the mean and variance of the PAoIs and validate our
results through numerical experiments. Additionally, we evaluate the impact of
different service time distributions on PAoI variability. These findings
contribute to the theoretical understanding of PAoI in tandem queueing systems
and provide practical insights for optimizing DECT-2020-based communication
systems. Published: 4 January 2026 Correction Statement: This article has been
republished with a minor change. The change does not affect

Approach and methods:
The Internet of Things (IoT) is one of the most significant areas of
technological development, built on three main components: devices, networks,
and controls. This complex system requires not only the development of each
component but also the evaluation of https://doi.org/10.3390/math14010186
Mathematics 2026, 14, 186 2 of 22 conditions for their coexistence. A critical
aspect of this task is assessing communication networks regarding the
feasibility of control implementation. Since control decisions rely heavily on
device feedback, the relevance and timeliness of this information are paramount.
As information relevance depends on delivery speed and reliability, careful
network-level analysis is required for various systems. The Age of Information
(AoI) has been proposed as a formal metric to evaluate update freshness [1]. In
continuous-time systems, the AoI is defined as the time elapsed since the
generation of the last successfully delivered update. Additionally, the
discrete-time process formed by the local maxima of the AoI is analyzed to
evaluate the delivery timeliness. This metric, known as the Peak AoI (PAoI), is
defined as the sum of the inter-arrival time and the sojourn time for each
update [1]. By exploring the AoI and PAoI, it is possible to assess the
freshness of the information and

Key findings:
the IEEE INFOCOM 2020—IEEE Conference on Computer Communications Workshops
(INFOCOM WKSHPS), Virtual, 6–9 July 2020; pp. 31–36. [CrossRef] Li, H.; Gong,
G.; Zhang, J.; Zhao, H.; Zhou, L.; Wei, J. Analysis on Age of Information in
Partial Computing Edge Computing Systems with Multi Source-Destination Pairs. In
Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE 96th Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2022Fall),
Beijing, China, 26–29 September 2022; pp. 1–7. [CrossRef] Qin, X.; Li, Y.; Song,
X.; Ma, N.; Huang, C.; Zhang, P. Timeliness of Information for Computation-
Intensive Status Updates in Task-Oriented Communications. IEEE J. Sel. Areas
Commun. 2023, 41, 623–638. [CrossRef] Burke, P.J. The Output of a Queuing
System. Oper. Res. 1956, 4, 699–704. [CrossRef] Reich, E. Note on Queues in
Tandem. Ann. Math. Stat. 1963, 34, 338–341. [CrossRef] ETSI. DECT-2020 New Radio
(NR); Part 2: Radio Reception and Transmission Requirements; Release 1; TS 103
636-2 v1.5.1; ETSI: Sophia Antipolis, France, 2024. Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note:
The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those
of the individual author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the
editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products
referred to in the content. https://doi.org/10.3390/math14010186

Contributions and implications:
The work contributes practical insight for DECT-2020 NR and related next-generation wireless systems. It provides experimental or simulated evidence for the proposed scheme and highlights how the results support stricter reliability, lower latency, or improved resource utilization in private network or industrial IoT scenarios.