Title: Positioning and Tracking in DECT-2020 NR With

Summary:

This paper addresses the central research challenge of the selected DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless networking domain. It focuses on how the proposed design or algorithm improves reliability, coverage, resource management, or performance for emerging URLLC, mMTC, or mesh-networked applications.

Problem and motivation:
—This article addresses efficient positioning and user device tracking in
Internet-of-Things (IoT) networks with particular focus on the new DECT-2020 New
Radio standard—the first noncellular 5G technology standard in the world.
Stemming from fundamental performance requirements of IoT networks, for example,
related to energy consumption, latency, and reliability, it is important to
utilize available radio resources efficiently, while avoiding redundant
transmissions and signaling. In this article, we extend our earlier proposed
tracking-based positioning solution, which utilized Fisher information to select
the most beneficial range and angle measurements, to cover also received signal
strength (RSS)-based measurements and particle filter-based solutions. By
exploiting prior information inherited from trackingbased positioning solutions,
it is possible to proactively select the most valuable positioning measurements,
and thus save valuable effort and time in acquiring and processing positioning
measurements without sacrificing the positioning performance in practice.
Through extensive numerical evaluations, considering range, angle, and RSS
measurements, we show that the proposed anchor selection method is able to
outperform the traditional signal-to-noise ratio-based measurement selection
approach, while enabling positioning with a smaller number of measurements. In
addition, we illustrate the effect of prior information quality on the proposed
method performance by varying the measurement interval in the tracking process.
The numerical results show that when only two anchors are utilized,
approximately up to 10%–50% reduction in positioning root-mean-square error can
be achieved depending on the considered measurement type.

Approach and methods:
CCOMMODATING to growing demand on Internet-ofThings (IoT)-based services, the
new Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications—2020 New Radio (DECT-2020 NR)
[1], [2] was introduced as part of the official International Telecommunication
Union (ITU) fifth generation (5G) standards in 2022 [3]. As the first
noncellular 5G technology, the DECT-2020 NR is developed especially for IoT use
cases with support of ultrareliable low latency communications (URLLC) and
massive machine-type communications (mMTC) related performance requirements from
5G. In various IoT and wireless sensor network (WSN) systems, along with related
applications and location-based services [4], positioning plays an important and
emerging role. Except for a few recent studies, [5], [6], DECT-2020 NR-based
positioning has not yet been widely studied due to its technological novelty.
Nonetheless, research works focusing on positioning with other IoT systems, or
IoT-like scenarios, can be found, for example, in [4], [7], [8], [9], [10],
[11], and [12]. In [4], different IoT-based A Received 31 October 2024; revised
16 January 2025; accepted 28 February 2025. Date of publication 11 April 2025;
date of current version 29 April 2025. This work was supported by Business
Finland under the USWA project. (Corresponding author: Jukka Talvitie.) Antti
Saikko, Jukka Talvitie, Joonas Säe, and Mikko Valkama are

Key findings:
In this article, we extended our earlier research work considering positioning
in IoT systems with a specific focus on the DECT-2020 NR standard. We utilized
the proposed method of selecting the most important positioning measurements to
avoid processing of negligible measurements, therefore enabling reduced energy
consumption, latency, and computational load. Moreover, by exploiting
measurement-based Fisher information from potential anchor measurements,
evaluated through the means of prediction step of a tracking filter and
associated mobility model, the proposed measurement selection method were used
to minimize the a posteriori PEB. In addition to EKF-based tracking, we
formulated a particle filter-based solution for challenging RSS-based
positioning scenarios, and proposed a novel method to utilize tracked particles
for FIM-based measurement selection. Based on extensive set of numerical results
considering specific DECT-2020 NR system parameters, the performance of the
proposed measurement selection approach was assessed and compared against the
baseline SNR-based selection scheme considering range, angle, and RSS
measurements, while also addressing the corresponding theoretical bounds. In
addition, up to a certain point the results can be applied to scenarios 80 IEEE
JOURNAL OF INDOOR AND SEAMLESS POSITIONING AND NAVIGATION, VOL. 3, 2025 with
other wireless technologies, such as cellular 5G NR, when considering similar

Contributions and implications:
The work contributes practical insight for DECT-2020 NR and related next-generation wireless systems. It provides experimental or simulated evidence for the proposed scheme and highlights how the results support stricter reliability, lower latency, or improved resource utilization in private network or industrial IoT scenarios.