Title: On Performance of multi-hop assisted mMTC

Summary:

This paper addresses the central research challenge of the selected DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless networking domain. It focuses on how the proposed design or algorithm improves reliability, coverage, resource management, or performance for emerging URLLC, mMTC, or mesh-networked applications.

Problem and motivation:
—Digital enhanced cordless telecommunication new radio (DECT-2020 NR) is one of
the candidate technology which fulfils the minimum requirements to serve as
fifth-generation (5G) standardization. It accomplishes one of the performance
requirements for massive machine-type communications (mMTC) by enabling a high
connection density, i.e. up to 1-million devices/km2 . Reliable communication
over such massive connections is achieved through a multi-hop relay system. This
paper analyzes the link-level performance of DECT-2020 NR standards for mMTC
using a multi-hop decode-and-forward (DF) relaying system for the outage
probability and bit error rate (BER) performance metrics. Simulation results
show the performance improvement in outage probability over various transmission
rates, hops and signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR). The numerical
results corroborate with Monte-Carlo simulation results. Also, the link
performance in terms of BER is compared for Turbo codes with puncturing.

Approach and methods:
MHz with a bandgap of 1728kHz [6]. Similar to NR, DECT2020 NR also provides a
subcarrier scaling factor (µ) ranges {1, 2, 4, 8} results in subcarrier spacing
{27, 54, 108, 216} kHz, respectively. Also, it provides the mesh network
topology to connect multiple radio devices via fixed terminating (FT) point [7].
For reliable communication over a densely populated devices, the cooperative
relaying technique results in the enhancement of quality of service (QoS) [8].
Outage probability (OP) is also one of the performance metrics to investigate
the QoS. Literature shows that the analytical expression of outage probability
has been derived over various fading environments [9], [10]. Authors in [11],
[12] analyzed the performance in terms of outage probability for the decode-and-
forward (DF) system over the Nakagami-m fading channel. Authors in [13], [14]
investigated the performance of the multi-hop system over the generalized-K and
fluctuating two-ray fading channels, respectively and showed the asymptotic
outage probability. Also, authors in [14] showed the ASER performance of
aforesaid multi-hop system. Bit error rate (BER) performance over NR
specifications is investigated in [15] over multiple interfering devices. Based
on the above-described research of multi-hop DF system, we used the inherent
merits of relaying communication for

Key findings:
“The outage probability of mobile wireless networks over η − µ fading channel,”
2018 IEEE Middle East and North Africa Commun. Conf. (MENACOMM), pp. 1-5, 2018.
[11] H. Yu, I. Lee and G. L. Stuber, “Outage Probability of Decode-andForward
Cooperative Relaying Systems with Co-Channel Interference,” in IEEE Trans.
Wireless Commun., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 266-274, 2012. [12] N. Suraweera and N. C.
Beaulieu, “Outage Probability of Decodeand-Forward Relaying with Optimum
Combining in the Presence of Co-Channel Interference and Nakagami Fading,” in
IEEE Wireless Commun. Lett., vol. 2, no. 5, pp. 495-498, 2013. [13] J. Cao, L.
Yang and Z. Zhong, ”Performance of Multihop Wireless Links over Generalized-K
Fading Channels,” IEEE 72nd Veh. Technol. Conf. - Fall, pp. 1-5, 2010. [14] D.
Dixit, PR. Sahu, “Performance of multihop detect-and-forward relaying system
over fluctuating two-ray fading channels,” Trans. Emerging Telecommunications
Techno., 2018. [15] R. Makkar, V. Kotha, M. Sheeba Kumari, D. Rawal, V. K.
Chakka and N. Kumar, “Performance of Downlink SISO NR System using MMSEIRC
Receiver,” IEEE 3rd 5G World Forum (5GWF), pp. 619-624, 2020. 988 Authorized
licensed use limited to: Hochschule Aalen (FH) - Technik und Wirtschaft.
Downloaded on February 25,2026 at 12:48:40 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions
apply.

Contributions and implications:
The work contributes practical insight for DECT-2020 NR and related next-generation wireless systems. It provides experimental or simulated evidence for the proposed scheme and highlights how the results support stricter reliability, lower latency, or improved resource utilization in private network or industrial IoT scenarios.