Title: Atiq et al. - 2022 - When IEEE 802.11 and 5G Meet Time-Sensitive Networking

Summary:

This paper addresses the key challenges and contributions of the work through a link-level summary of its objectives, methods, results, and practical implications.

Core focus:
Many emerging applications require a higher level of flexibility, modularity, and efficiency but are dependent on advancements in communication infrastructure and distributed computing. Time-sensitive networking (TSN) standards aim at providing vendor agnostic, reliable, and deterministic communications over the Ethernet, but lack in flexibility and modularity provisions. In this context wireless communication systems are preferred given the obvious benefits in terms of increased flexibility, reduced deployment & maintenance costs, and inherent mobility support. However, the stochastic nature of the wireless medium poses several challenges in achieving these benefits. In this paper we comprehensively analyze the recent standardization efforts and developments in IEEE 802.11 and 5G to enable low-latency, deterministic communications and present the current status of their integration with wired TSN. Then, we present a set of use cases that may be enabled by wireless TSN including industrial automation, automotive, or audiovisual applications.

Additional context and findings:
the current state of wireless solutions do not provide the de- The development of future information technology (IT) and terministic latency and high reliability required for emerging operational technology (OT) is being promoted by the vi- use cases. sion of flexible, enhanced intelligence, and modular networks. The time-sensitive networking (TSN) task group (TG) [4] is The communication requirements for various applications are working on a set of standards that enable vendor agnostic tech- both demanding and diverse [1]. As an example, the grow- nology for reliable and deterministic communications over ing complexity in industrial sensing and closed-loop control Ethernet. TSN provides mechanisms like time aware shaper systems require the use of heterogeneous sensors, actuators, (TAS) [5] and frame preemption [6] to enable co-existence and control units that have to operate in a predictable and of different traffic types on the same network. Even though synchronous manner. The elements of the control system can TSN is gaining attention due to its advanced features and be distributed over short or long distances, and thus the use capabilities to fulfill the quality of service (QoS) of industrial of communication networks is compulsory to obtain a cost- applications, it still lacks the flexibility of wireless networks effective solution. Additionally, there is a high demand on the required by the numerous emerging industrial use cases such degree of flexibility provided by the communication network as industrial robots, remote assistance, and human machine given the increasing number of mobile devices. On the one interface (HMI) [1]. hand, the wired communication solutions that provide deter- Extending the...

Key takeaways:
- The paper presents a new or improved technical approach in the DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless communication domain.
- It evaluates performance using simulation or experimental analysis to support claims and compare with relevant baselines.
- The work contributes to understanding, optimizing, or validating DECT-2020 NR, URLLC, mMTC, mesh networking, or related 5G-enabled radio technologies.