Title: Dhanwani et al. - 2020 - Assessment of Candidate Technology ETSI DECT-2020 New Radio

Summary:

This paper addresses the key challenges and contributions of the work through a link-level summary of its objectives, methods, results, and practical implications.

Core focus:
—A number of IMT-2020 candidate technologies in- Institute (ETSI)-digital enhanced cordless telecommunications cluding the 3GPP have been submitted to the ITU-R. All (DECT) Forum, enhanced ultra high throughput (EUHT) have candidate technologies are expected to meet the minimum per- been submitted to ITU-R; claiming to have met the minimum formance requirements set by ITU-R for getting recommended as IMT-2020. In this paper, based on the submissions for Digital technology requirements. Enhanced Cordless Telecommunication (DECT-2020 NR) tech- Candidate technologies submitted to ITU-R need to fulfil nology, we have evaluated the performances of latency, reliability a set of minimum technical requirements specified in ITU- and connection density as per ITU-R evaluation methodology. R report M.2410 [2]. The report M.2412 [4] provides the We found that the latency requirements can only be met using guideline for the evaluation process for self-evaluation as well half-slot transmissions or HARQ-less full-slot transmission in contrary to the results submitted in the self-evaluation report of as independent evaluation. As per the ITU-R process, all the the DECT-2020 NR. Due to lack of details in the submissions; like candidate technologies need to be independently evaluated by the channel and interference modeling between device to device independent evaluation groups (IEG). relaying, scheduling and control of relay propagation direction, In this work, 5G India forum (5GIF) independent evaluation we could not conclude whether the DECT-2020 NR can meet group has evaluated ETSI-DECT Forum candidate technology the minimum performance requirement of connection density of IMT-2020. DECT-2020 NR. We have carried out analytical approach in this process. In this work, we focused on latency and reliability Index Terms—5G India Forum, DECT, NR, Latency, Reliabil- requirements necessary for mission critical applications and ity, Connection Density, Beamformng connection density requirements for massive machine type

Additional context and findings:
I. I NTRODUCTION communication applications (mMTC). Since, no detailed spec- ifications of the DECT-2020 NR was available at the time The International Telecommunication Union Radiocommu- of evaluation and write up, our assessment is limited by the nication sector (ITU-R) has set the requirements for Interna- description template and self evaluation report submitted to tional Mobile Telecommunications-2020 (IMT-2020 5G Stan- ITU-R. We found, the ITU-R submission was not sufficient to dard). The standard is about to complete in next few months even conclude on the connection density requirement. Addi- that is, by 2020 [1]. However, some parts of it have been tionally, due to the dependency of DECT-2020 NR technology finalized earlier. For example, the requirements for radio ac- on mesh based topology for delivering reliable machine type cess technologies (RAT) were adopted in ITU-R report M.2410 data packets in urban macro like test environment, the assess- in November 2017 [2]. Following this publication, the devel- ment requires channel and interference modeling information opers of radio access technologies such as third generation between device to device relaying, scheduling and propagation partnership project (3GPP) started developing 5G technologies direction of relaying to guarantee packet delivery within 10s. meeting these requirements. 3GPP has developed radio access We could not determine what is the minimum number of nodes technologies new radio (NR), Long term evolution - machine needed in the mesh topology for the network to be fully con- type communication (LTE-M) and narrow band - Internet of nected. This could be lower than

Key takeaways:
- The paper presents a new or improved technical approach in the DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless communication domain.
- It evaluates performance using simulation or experimental analysis to support claims and compare with relevant baselines.
- The work contributes to understanding, optimizing, or validating DECT-2020 NR, URLLC, mMTC, mesh networking, or related 5G-enabled radio technologies.