Title: Dürre and Werner - 2024 - DECT-2020 NR for Professional Live Audio Design Space Exploration and Practical Evaluation

Summary:

This paper addresses the key challenges and contributions of the work through a link-level summary of its objectives, methods, results, and practical implications.

Core focus:
—This paper presents an in-depth evaluation of the reliability requirement for the transmission seems obvious in DECT-2020 New Radio (NR) standard for professional live a live stage scenario, there are also latency limitations audio applications, focusing on latency as a critical performance tolerable by professionals. This is related to the feedback loop indicator. The evaluation uses the nRF91 modem series by from microphone to mixing console and back to the in-ear- 2024 IEEE 5th International Symposium on the Internet of Sounds (IS2) | 979-8-3503-6652-5/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/IS262782.2024.10704159 Nordic Semiconductor, currently the first and only available monitoring. The overall latency should not exceed about 4 ms devices with DECT-2020 support. We evaluate the potential of for the full loop. While this includes a typical processing delay DECT-2020 by exploring the design space of the standard, of about 2 ms in a mixing console, only 1 ms remains for each explaining the complexity of trade-offs between latency, RF one-way wireless transmission [1] [2]. Figure 1 illustrates this resource utilization, and transmission robustness. We then typical stage setup. The data rate of a wireless audio stream present our measurement setup, to analyze the performance. Based on a series of practical latency measurements with can be approximated to about 200 kbit/s, assuming different configurations, we identify potential operation points 48000 samples / s and a state-of-the-art professional live audio for transmitting wireless audio over DECT-2020 and conclude codec. Packet error rates should be smaller than 10-6 to ensure that the minimum achievable latency with the current DECT- sufficient quality-of-experience for audience and artists [3]. 2020 modem implementation is 2.312 ms, at a cost of about one- third of the RF channel resources. Our results represent a

Additional context and findings:
achieved with non-standard, hand-optimized, and highly interlinked audio and radio frontends, based on narrow- or Local wireless transmission (TX) of audio plays an wide-band analog or digital modulations. Although this important role in many professional live audio applications. approach results in commercially successful products, the The combination of wireless microphones and in-ear- customized nature of the overall stack leads to significant monitoring (IEM) devices allow musicians to freely move on development costs with relatively slow innovation cycles. a live stage without having to manage cables. While the B. Application agnostic In contrast many successful standardized wireless s technologies, such as Wi-Fi and 5G, are originally designed to be application agnostic. One major element in achieving this ireless icrop one was to focus on the IP-convergence layer to create a data pipeline for many concurring users and applications. This came with certain trade-offs e.g., in terms of efficiency and 2 s latency, which made those technologies incapable of realizing ax s URLLC (ultra-reliable and low-latency communication) use Live Processing cases such as wireless microphones on a stage. Still, the usician number of targeted applications due to the agnostic approach s is significant, resulting in commercially feasible highly integrated modem solutions that are able to make up for some disadvantages, especially in efficiency. In the recent past the n-Ear- onitor standardization of these widespread technologies are beginning to broaden their scope to applications with Fig. 1. Latency critical self-feedback loop in professional live audio deterministic latency requirements [3] [4]. This is driven by applications the respective technology stakeholders (e.g., modem XXX-X-XXXX-XXXX-X/XX/$XX.00 ©20XX...

Key takeaways:
- The paper presents a new or improved technical approach in the DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless communication domain.
- It evaluates performance using simulation or experimental analysis to support claims and compare with relevant baselines.
- The work contributes to understanding, optimizing, or validating DECT-2020 NR, URLLC, mMTC, mesh networking, or related 5G-enabled radio technologies.