Title: Gaidamaka et al. - 2025 - Optimizing Delays in Random Access Procedure of DECT-2020 by Estimation of Device States

Summary:

This paper addresses the key challenges and contributions of the work through a link-level summary of its objectives, methods, results, and practical implications.

Core focus:
—Massive Machine-Type Communication (mMTC) and a scheduled data transmission (DT) phase, serving devices enables the seamless connectivity of billions energy-efficient with higher throughput demands. devices, forming the intelligent infrastructure for smart cities, On the one hand, the dual-phase structure of DECT-2020 automated industries, and real-time data-driven decision making. In this paper we investigate the modern mMTC technology Dig- is similar to that of Cellular IoT (CIoT) standards such as ital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunication New Radio (DECT- NB-IoT and LTE-M [3], [4]. However, the RA procedure 2020 NR), focusing on random access (RA) procedure. The study used in cellular networks, which includes a set of orthogonal develops a mathematical model characterizing the RA phase preambles, is significantly different from the DECT-2020 RA and proposes a hidden Markov model (HMM)-based method procedure, which is based on traditional binary exponential for estimating the number of competing devices. The research introduces and evaluates a delay reduction strategy wherein backoff [5]. On the other hand, well-studied systems that the RA phase duration is adapted based on the HMM-based rely solely on binary exponential backoff [6] are not suitable estimation of the device state. Numerical results demonstrate for analyzing the DECT-2020 RA, which coexists with DT. the effectiveness of the proposed approach in optimizing RA Specifically, devices in DECT-2020 do not immediately initiate performance. The findings contribute to improving DECT-2020 backoff intervals after data generation or channel sensing, network efficiency by balancing RA and data transmission phases while minimizing latency. but instead synchronize at the beginning of the RA phase Index Terms—mMTC, DECT-2020, random access, delay, and execute backoff procedures simultaneously based on the hidden Markov model number of collisions they experience. The latest IEEE 802.11 networks that implement RA Win-

Additional context and findings:
to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguis- tics, and Speech Recognition, with Language Models. Harlow : Pearson sults demonstrate that the proposed HMM-based estimation Education, 3rd ed., 2025. Online manuscript released August 24, 2025. method provides quite accurate predictions of device behavior during the RA phase even by observing 100-200 RA phases. A PPENDIX The delay reduction strategy shows significant potential for V ITERBI ALGORITHM improving network performance by optimizing resource allo- cation. The findings presented in this work contribute to the Algorithm 1 Viterbi Algorithm for State Estimation advancement of DECT-2020 technology and provide valuable Require: insights for optimizing mMTC networks. Observation sequence Y = (Y1 , . . . , YN −1 ); Transition probabilities Ps (X̂, X), s = 2, . . . , N − 1; ACKNOWLEDGMENT Observation probabilities M (s, X, o); Support from the Basic Research Program of HSE Univer- Initial state distribution π = (π(X))X∈X . sity is gratefully acknowledged by Anna Zhivtsiva, Dmitry Return: The most likely final state X̃. Nikolaev, and Yevgeni Koucheryavy, who prepared Sections II, and I

Key takeaways:
- The paper presents a new or improved technical approach in the DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless communication domain.
- It evaluates performance using simulation or experimental analysis to support claims and compare with relevant baselines.
- The work contributes to understanding, optimizing, or validating DECT-2020 NR, URLLC, mMTC, mesh networking, or related 5G-enabled radio technologies.