Title: Maliatsos et al. - 2022 - Evaluation of the IMT-2020 Candidate Radio Interface Technology DECT-2020 NR

Summary:

This paper addresses the key challenges and contributions of the work through a link-level summary of its objectives, methods, results, and practical implications.

Core focus:
—This paper provides an overview of DECT-2020 NR submitted and qualified for further evaluation by WP 5D in technology evaluation conducted by the Wireless World Research 2019. Step 4 of the process, includes elaborate evaluation of Forum (WWRF) in the context of IMT-2020 Evaluation Process the proposed RITs by Independent Evaluation Groups (IEGs). solicited by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). DECT-2020 NR, a Radio Interface Technology developed by ETSI After detailed examination of the technologies, the IEGs TC DECT and DECT Forum, was submitted as an IMT-2020 should conclude, if the IMT-2020 requirements are covered candidate along with five other technologies. It is applicable or not. The evaluation studies are performed on the basis of a in various use cases and markets, with focus on consumer methodology formulated by WP 5D and potentially additional and industrial IoT applications, such as industry and building methodologies proposed by the various IEGs. The evaluation is automation and monitoring. In particular, it is targeting Ultra- Reliable Low Latency (URLLC) and massive Machine Type Com- based on the characteristics defined in ITU-R Reports M.2410- munication (mMTC) scenarios, based on decentralized network 0 [1], M.2411-0 [2] and M.2412-0 [3] using a methodology deployments. The WWRF performed a complete assessment of described in Report ITU-R M.2412-0. The methodology aims the technology which included a high-level assessment of services at assessing the service, spectrum and technical characteristics and spectrum capabilities, along with a minimum technical for the candidate RITs, given a set of minimum performance performance requirements analysis for the URLLC and mMTC test environments, based on inspection, analysis and simulation. requirements. For assessing characteristics using simulation, i.e., reliability and During 2020, it was concluded that the set of RITs (SRIT) connection density, an in-house simulation tool was developed. proposed by 3GPP (Release 16 [4]) should proceed to next The evaluation study addressed mesh topologies supported by steps of the process. Along with 3GPP, some variants relying DECT-2020 and proposed several enhancements to the ITU’s on it, submitted by Republic of Korea, People’s Republic evaluation methodology, which is defined for cellular topologies only. The technology was found to fulfill all the requirements of China and India (TSDSI) were also qualified. However, specified by ITU’s evaluation process for IMT-2020. at the same time, the proponent’s ETSI (TC DECT) & Index Terms—ITU evaluation, DECT-2020 NR, IMT-2020, DECT FORUM submission for the DECT-2020 NR (Digital URLLC, mMTC Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications) radio interface did not receive a complete evaluation as to whether it satisfies all

Additional context and findings:
to the RIT is presented in • Portable Termination points (PT), that select another RD, Section

Key takeaways:
- The paper presents a new or improved technical approach in the DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless communication domain.
- It evaluates performance using simulation or experimental analysis to support claims and compare with relevant baselines.
- The work contributes to understanding, optimizing, or validating DECT-2020 NR, URLLC, mMTC, mesh networking, or related 5G-enabled radio technologies.