Title: Mudriievskyi et al. - 2024 - CHEAP 5G DECT NR+ for Tactile Internet With Human In The Loop Application

Summary:

This paper addresses the key challenges and contributions of the work through a link-level summary of its objectives, methods, results, and practical implications.

Core focus:
—5G communication networks are suitable to realize hundreds of thousands of dollars, not considering the planning, Tactile Internet with Human in the Loop application due to installation, and system integration overheads common to typ- the envisaged latency promises. Currently, 5G Release 15 is ical campus network deployments. Even smaller deployments widely deployed. Latency performance to control robots or enable humans to engage with the metaverse will require higher releases. thus are cost prohibitive, e.g., for small businesses. WiFi is widely used due to its cost, but has poor latency This paper’s main contribution is an overview of the latency performance due to the “listen-before-talk” requirement in the performance in different technology environments, focusing on ISM bands. Therefore, solutions that combine low cost and high how DECT-2020 NR+ compares to established 5G/6G tech- latency performance are needed. nologies in a ﬁrst real-world implementation evaluation. While This paper presents a detailed performance evaluation of a 5G DECT NR+ testbed with a focus on latency and data 5G/6G systems boast high data rates, the DECT-2020 NR+ rate. While commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) 5G testbeds are standard [1] is geared at modest data rates that are achieved still very expensive, we present a low-cost solution to achieve with minimal latency — a critical requirement for applications similar or even better latency performance with NR+. The relying on ultra-low latency connectivity. The recent DECT- testbed is composed of two NR+ platforms and will explore 2020 NR+ standard provides a frame structure similar to different settings such as packet length and Modulation and Coding Scheme (MCS). The main result of the paper is that cellular technologies, making it suitable for timing guarantees non-optimized COTS DECT NR+ can provide latency values of of smaller data payloads. This circumvents CSMA issues 2 ms to 8 ms and a data rate of 2.3 Mbit/s to 2.5 Mbit/s. that result in limited if any timing guarantees. We provide Index Terms—DECT-2020 NR, DECT NR+, latency, tactile, a detailed analysis of latency and data rate metrics obtained robotic from real-world testing on our dedicated testbed. Through this empirical study, we provide insights that illuminate the

Additional context and findings:
the number of bits per modulation symbol Nbps and coding to some of the main features of the standard. rate R the hardware in the testbed supports the MCS indices provided in Tab. I. A. Network Architectures C. Frame Structure The DECT-2020 NR+ standard supports the following net- work architectures: The duration of the radio frame is ﬁxed to Tf rame = 10 ms with 24 slots of Tslot = 0.41667 ms duration (see Figure 1). 1) Point-to-Point and Point-to-Multipoint: This direct link These values ensure coexistence with legacy DECT systems for low latency communication is suitable to replace as described in [8]. cables between, e.g., two isolated industrial devices Each DECT-2020 NR+ slot can be divided into 2, 4, 8 which require to communicate with each other. or 16 subslots, depending on the conﬁguration. In the tested 2) Single- or multi-cell topologies: One or multiple Radio Devices (RDs) operate in Fixed Termination point (FT) mode and act as base stations. 3) Mesh network topology: Each device can communicate to all of its neighbors, and retransmits their messages to extend the range and increase the reliability. 4) Internetworking with 3GPP 5G networks: A DECT NR+ network can be connected as untrusted to the 5G Core network via a Non-3GPP Inter-Working-Function (N3IWF) or as trusted via a Trusted Non-3GPP Gateway Function (TNGF). In this paper, we focus on the Point-to-Point connection as only the physical layer components of the standard were implemented in the hardware we employ for experimentation. Fig. 1. DECT-2020 NR+ frame structure with two subslots. Authorized licensed use...

Key takeaways:
- The paper presents a new or improved technical approach in the DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless communication domain.
- It evaluates performance using simulation or experimental analysis to support claims and compare with relevant baselines.
- The work contributes to understanding, optimizing, or validating DECT-2020 NR, URLLC, mMTC, mesh networking, or related 5G-enabled radio technologies.