Title: Smida et al. - 2023 - ETSIDECT-2020 Component RIT Technology Implementation and Evaluation Contributions in mMTC and URLL

Summary:

This paper addresses the key challenges and contributions of the work through a link-level summary of its objectives, methods, results, and practical implications.

Core focus:
—We propose a comprehensive evaluation of submissions, ETSI TC DECT did not provide all technical spec- ETSI/DECT-2020 New Radio (NR) as an IMT-2020 candidate ifications for mMTC use case, thereby preventing from deciding technology for the mMTC (connection density) and URLLC whether the technology fulfills the specifications or not. After (reliability) use cases. Several independent evaluation groups a new submission [7]–[10] and several technical exchanges, ICC 2023 - IEEE International Conference on Communications | 978-1-5386-7462-8/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICC45041.2023.10279025 assessed DECT-2020 NR performance against the IMT-2020 requirements and INRS played a key role within the Canadian it was possible to run link- and system-level simulations to Evaluation Group (CEG) in evaluating the technology via evaluate connection density. DECT-2020 NR has to fulfill the simulation. In order to develop 5G link- and system-level requirement of 99.999% reliability and support more than one simulators, it is necessary to identify and understand all key million devices per km2 . characteristics of DECT technology. Nevertheless, the mMTC use case offers D2D communications, which made simulation In this paper, we point out key features of DECT-2020 NR analysis extremely cumbersome. In this paper, we also explain the and most importantly the D2D challenge in our simulations and different maneuvers in order to fasten the simulations and reduce the maneuvers made to the routing process to make such com- complexity while respecting all DECT specifications. Simulation plex simulations in terms of time and memory run smoothly. results provided from link- and system-level simulations for both URLLC and mMTC use cases show that DECT-2020 component We propose a comprehensive evaluation of ETSI/DECT-2020 RIT meets the IMT-2020 requirements. New Radio (NR) as an IMT-2020 candidate technology for the Index Terms—5G; ETSI/DECT; Technology evaluation; Con- mMTC (connection density) and URLLC (reliability). Several nection density (mMTC); Reliability (URLLC); D2D; channel mis- independent evaluation groups assessed DECT-2020 NR per- match; implementation impairments; channels estimation errors; formance against the IMT-2020 requirements and INRS played synchronization; localization; direction-of-arrival (DoA) an important part within the Canadian Evaluation Group (CEG) in evaluating the technology via simulation.

Additional context and findings:
I. I NTRODUCTION In order to develop 5G link- and system-level simulators, The International Telecommunication Union Radiocommuni- it is necessary to identify and understand all key characteris- cation sector (ITU-R) has set the requirements for International tics of DECT technology. Nevertheless, the mMTC use case Mobile Telecommunications-2020 (IMT-2020 5G Standard). offers D2D communications, which made simulation analysis With the rise of new wireless communications, artificial in- extremely cumbersome. [11] analyzed by system level simu- telligence, and big data, several enabling radio technologies lations the energy consumption of DECT-2020 NR networks standardized by different standardization organisms such as with different network sizes and topologies. In this paper, we 3GPP and ETSI have been proposed within the ITU-R Working also explain the different maneuvers in order to fasten the Party 5D. simulations and reduce complexity while respecting all DECT The European telecommunications standards Institute specifications. (ETSI)-digital enhanced cordless telecommunications (DECT) Simulation results provided from link- and system-level Forum was submitted to ITU-R; claiming to have met the simulations for both URLLC and mMTC use cases show that minimum technology requirements that need to be fulfilled DECT-2020 component RIT meets the IMT-2020 requirements. in order to pass [1]. Independent evaluation groups (IEG) The terminology (traditionally used in DECT) Fixed Part participated in evaluating DECT submission involving Ultra (FP) and Portable Part (PP) is used to identify the two DECT Reliable Low Latency Communications (URLLC) and massive radio end points. The FP is normally fixed and corresponds Machine Type Communications (mMTC) and INRS took

Key takeaways:
- The paper presents a new or improved technical approach in the DECT-2020 NR / 5G / wireless communication domain.
- It evaluates performance using simulation or experimental analysis to support claims and compare with relevant baselines.
- The work contributes to understanding, optimizing, or validating DECT-2020 NR, URLLC, mMTC, mesh networking, or related 5G-enabled radio technologies.