Master’s Programme in Computer, Communication and Information Sciences



FPGA-based DECT-2020 New Radio Packet
Detection
Roni Fagerholm




                                                                         Master’s Thesis
                                                                         2024
© 2024
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons
“Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 Interna-
tional” license.
Author Roni Fagerholm
Title FPGA-based DECT-2020 New Radio Packet Detection
Degree programme Computer, Communication and Information Sciences
Major Communications Engineering
Supervisor D. Sc. (Tech.) Kalle Ruttik
Advisor D. Sc. (Tech.) Kalle Ruttik
Date 30.09.2024                Number of pages 64                  Language English
Abstract
A rapid increase in number and diverse applications of connected devices has forced
digital wireless protocols to specialize further for specific purposes. One of such
applications is the previously unanswered market for reliable wireless low-latency
communication in private self-sustained networks. As a revision of an older standard,
DECT-2020 New Radio aims to provide a solution for this market.
    To research different physical layer properties of DECT in real-world environments,
a software-defined radio (SDR) framework would be required. Since such design
already existing for IEEE 802.11, a well-utilized open-source project openwifi, an
analogous solution for DECT could be realized. The goal of this thesis was to provide
an implementation for the first part of this SDR framework.
    The main contribution of this thesis is an FPGA-based packet detector for DECT.
Written in Verilog-2001 for an AMD Zynq system-on-chip, the implemented design
manages Synchronization Training Field preamble detection and timing synchro-
nization with hardware efficient autocorrelation approach. The proposed design was
evaluated using a simulation environment that integrated MATLAB and the Icarus
Verilog simulation tool. Both real-world and generated data were utilized during the
simulation.
    Compared to a cross-correlation based detection, the implementation utilizes only
two complex-valued multiplications at the expense of a higher signal-to-noise (SNR)
ratio requirement. In comparison to a reference autocorrelation-based detection,
the implementation requires at least 2.6 dB higher SNR depending on the utilized
configuration, yet it does not suffer from co-channel interference and includes a simpler
signal power estimator. The resource utilization of the proposed design is comparable
to that of openwifi despite differences in communication protocols. Finally, different
power scaling factors were simulated to analyze the implementation’s performance.
The thesis thus provides an initial foundation to a hardware-based SDR for DECT-2020
NR.
Keywords DECT-2020 New Radio, DECT-2020 NR+, SDR, FPGA, packet
            detection, timing synchronization, autocorrelation
Tekijä Roni Fagerholm
Työn nimi FPGA-pohjainen DECT-2020 New Radio paketintunnistin
Koulutusohjelma Computer, Communication and Information Sciences
Pääaine Communications Engineering
Työn valvoja TkT Kalle Ruttik
Työn ohjaaja TkT Kalle Ruttik
Päivämäärä 30.09.2024                    Sivumäärä 64                    Kieli englanti
Tiivistelmä
Kommunikoivien laitteiden määrän nopea kasvu sekä käyttökohteiden moninaistu-
minen ovat pakottaneet digitaaliset langattomat tietoliikennetekniikat erikoistumaan
tarkempiin käyttökohteisiin. Yksi tällainen vielä avoin sovelluskohde on pieni viiveiset
ja luotettavat yksityiset langattomat verkot omavaraisella järjestelyllä. Vanhemmasta
standardista laajennettu uuden sukupolven standardi DECT-2020 New Radio pyrkii
tarjoamaan ratkaisua tälle sovelluskohteelle.
    Voidakseen tutkia DECT:n fyysisen kerroksen eri ominaisuuksia oikeassa maa-
ilmassa, tarvittaisiin ohjelmistoradiolle soveltuvaa kehitysympäristöä. Koska IEEE
802.11 standardille on jo luotu halutunkaltainen ja laajasti käytetty avoimen lähdekoo-
din projekti openwifi, vastaavanlainen toteutus DECT:lle on mahdollista. Tämän työn
tarkoituksena on esittää ensimmäinen osio tälle ohjelmistoradio kehitysympäristölle.
    Tämän työn tärkein tuotos on FPGA-teknologiaan perustuva paketin tunnistin
DECT:lle. Kirjoitettu Verilog-2001-kielellä AMD Zynq-järjestelmäpiirille, toteutus
sisältää Synchronization Training Field-synkronointikentän tunnistuksen sekä ajoituk-
sen synkronoinnin autokorrelaatiomenetelmällä. Tunnistinta arvioitiin MATLAB ja
Icarus Verilog-simulaatiotyökalu pohjaisessa ympäristössä todellisilla sekä luoduilla
signaaleilla.
    Verrattuna ristinkorrelatiopohjaiseen tunnistukseen, totetus käyttää vain kahta
kompleksiarvoista kertolaskuoperaatiota, kuitenkin tarviten huomattavasti korkeam-
man signaali-kohinasuhteen. Toteutus myös vaatii on vähintään 2.6 dB korkeamman
signaali-kohinasuhteen kuin verrokki autokorrelaatiomalli, mutta ei kärsi samakana-
vahäiriöistä ja käyttää yksinkertaisempaa tehoestimaattoria. Ehdotetun tunnistimen
FPGA-resurssien käyttö on rinnastettavissa openwifi:in huolimatta radiotekniikoi-
den eroista. Lopuksi eri tehoestimaattorin skaalauskertoimia simuloitiin toteutuksen
suorituskyvyn arvioimiseksi. Työtä voidaan käyttää alustana laitteistopohjaiselle
ohjelmistoradiolle DECT-2020 NR:iin.
Avainsanat DECT-2020 NR, DECT-2020 NR+, ohjelmistoradio, FPGA, paketin
              tunnistus, ajoituksen synkronointi, autocorrelaatio
Preface
First, I want to thank my supervisor D.Sc. (Tech.) Kalle Ruttik for providing me this
opportunity. Without him, my passion for hardware and FPGAs had never materialized
in such way it is now.
    Additionally, I want to thank Nicolas Malm for his never ending guidance and
unrelenting support to get me to this point, Veli-Matti Rantanen for understanding my
foolish questions and helping in multitude of ways, and Jari Lietzén for his aid during
my studies and hobbies. I want to also thank Kalle Koskinen and Victor Nässi for
aiding with my studies and work. Without them all, I would have never gotten this far.
    Finally, I want to thank my family for their passionate support. And to Linda, I
want to apologize for sleepless nights that I have spent working, and thank you for
understanding and supporting me.




   Otaniemi, 30 September 2024


                                                               Roni Fagerholm




                                          5
Contents
Abstract                                                                             3

Abstract (in Finnish)                                                                4

Preface                                                                              5

Contents                                                                             6

Symbols and abbreviations                                                            7

1   Introduction                                                                     9
    1.1 Thesis objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
    1.2 Structure of thesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11

2   Background                                                                      12
    2.1 Correlation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     12
    2.2 Field-programmable gate array . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       14
    2.3 Hardware-based software-defined radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
    2.4 DECT-2020 New Radio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         18
        2.4.1 Physical layer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      20
        2.4.2 Synchronization Training Field . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        23
    2.5 Openwifi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25

3   Simulation and hardware environment                                             27
    3.1 Simulation environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      27
    3.2 Hardware platform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28

4   Packet detector implementation                                                  31
    4.1 Autocorrelation numerator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       31
    4.2 Autocorrelation denominator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       35
    4.3 Timing synchronization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      37
    4.4 Expanded 𝛽 and 𝜇 support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        40

5   Results                                                                         44
    5.1 MATLAB reference comparison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           44
    5.2 Power scaling factor comparison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       47
    5.3 Packet detection algorithm comparison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       52
    5.4 Resource utilization comparison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       55

6   Conclusions                                                                     58

References                                                                          59




                                           6
Symbols and abbreviations
Symbols
𝑒        Euler’s number
𝑗        complex number
𝑅𝑥𝑦      cross-correlation
𝑅𝑥𝑥      autocorrelation
I        in-phase component of a complex signal
Q        quadrature component of a complex signal
𝛼        power scaling factor
𝛽        Fourier transform scaling factor
𝜇        subcarrier scaling factor
𝑆        time domain base sequence of STF
𝑐𝜇       STF signal cover sequence
𝑁S       number of samples in STF base sequence
  STF
𝑁REP     number of time domain repetitions in STF
𝑅𝑆𝑆      autocorrelation of the STF base sequence
𝑅−𝑆𝑆     autocorrelation of the STF base sequence with inverted sign

Operators
⊗
⨂︁      convolution
        Kronecker product
·       multiplication
A∗      complex conjugate of A
≫       bitwise logical right shift
⌊A⌋     floor function of A




                                        7
Abbreviations
5G NR    5G New Radio
ADC      Analog-to-Digital Converter
ASIC     Application-Specific Integrated Circuit
AWGN     Additive White Gaussian Noise
BRAM     Block Random-Access Memory
BLE      Bluetooth Low Energy
CORDIC   Coordinate Rotation Digital Computer
DAC      Digital-to-Analog Converter
DDR      Double Data Rate
DECT     Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications
DF       Data Field
DSP      Digital Signal Processor
ETSI     European Telecommunications Standards Institute
FF       Flip-Flop
FFT      Fast Fourier Transform
FPGA     Field-Programmable Gate Array
FSM      Finite-State Machine
FT       Fixed Termination point
GI       Guard Interval
GPP      General Purpose Processor
HDL      Hardware Description Language
HW       Hardware
I/O      Input/Output
IEEE     Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
ISM      Industrial, Scientific, and Medical frequency
IoT      Internet of Things
L-STF    Legacy Short Training Field
LTE      Long Term Evolution
LTE-M    Long Term Evolution Machine Type Communication
LUT      Lookup Table
MAC      Medium Access Control
MIMO     Multiple-Input Multiple-Output
NB-IoT   NarrowBand-Internet of Things
NR       New Radio
OFDM     Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing
PT       Portable Termination point
RD       Radio Device
RF       Radio Frequency
SDR      Software-Defined Radio
SerDes   Serializer/Deserializer
SNR      Signal-to-Noise Ratio
SoC      System-on-Chip
STF      Synchronization Training Field
TDD      Time Domain Duplexing

                                   8
1    Introduction
With increasing digitization from commercial applications to industrial machines,
granting wireless access over the air between different devices has necessitated various
protocols and standards. Since the inception of wireless digital communications
devices, later inventions have allowed digital devices to communicate independently
without requirement for human intervention [1, Chapter 1]. As the scale of these
interconnected devices has increased, this phenomenon of networked devices has
become known as Internet of Things (IoT).
    By utilizing IoT to remotely supervise large scale systems and create autonomous
networks, the range of use cases for the technology has rapidly increased in the past
years. Such applications include detecting forest fires [2], automatic wall plant climate
control [3], automated warehouses [4] and aiding healthcare [5]. Thus, multiple
different wireless protocols have been proposed and utilized to allow machine-
to-machine communications over-the-air [6, 7]. Some of these communication
technologies have been specifically tailored for IoT applications, such as Bluetooth
Low Energy (BLE), LoRa and Zigbee. Others technologies have been later modified
from existing protocols, such as Narrowband-IoT (NB-IoT) and Long-Term Evolution
Machine Type Communication (LTE-M) from 3rd Generation Partnership Project’s
(3GPP) cellular LTE standard, Reduced Capability (RedCap) from 3GPP’s 5G New
Radio (NR), and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers’ (IEEE) 802.11,
marketed as Wi-Fi.
    However, as the number of devices and the variety of operational requirements for
different applications have increased, the ability for current protocols to universally meet
requested demands has become more challenging. For example, a mobile industrial
robot has vastly different performance needs from a static outdoor agricultural sensor.
With such a wide range of IoT applications, each of the wireless communication standard
has to balance between scalability, power consumption, latency, infrastructural costs,
network configuration, and data rates. Hence, each of the wireless IoT technologies has
begun targeting a specific range of use cases, such as local real-time device-to-device
communications for BLE, long range low-energy applications in case of NB-IoT or
self-organizing infrastructureless mesh networks with Zigbee [6, 7].
    Even then, a market for reliable low-latency wireless IoT protocol in private
self-contained network environment is still left unanswered. In the advent of industrial
IoT, where user equipment requires interlinked cable-like wireless transmissions with
steady bandwidth, low latency, and reliability, current IoT standards fail to achieve
such demands in full [8]. Additional issues from various current standards are the
infrastructure requirement or protocol complexity [9]. For example, while 3GPP’s
RedCap could provide a possible solution, the necessity for setting-up, operating,
and administrating a 5G NR network incurs costs and additional labor. From an
IoT equipment perspective, standards such as IEEE802.11 include features and
requirements that needlessly increase engineering costs when simpler designs could
be used. An additional challenge to provide reliability over a wireless channel has
been spectrum congestion, as multiple different technologies share the same frequency
range [10]. These overlapping frequency bandwidths cause signal interference, that in

                                             9
turn produces data errors and outages. Frequency congestion is a prevalent issue with
protocols utilizing industrial, scientific, and medical frequency (ISM) bands, such as
Wi-Fi, BLE, LoRa and Zigbee.
    To answer the need for a protocol that meets demands for such specific market,
European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) has revised an older wireless
communication standard known as Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications
(DECT). While the protocol was originally designed for in-premise wireless audio
transmissions, the newer revision of DECT has been designed for broader scope
of applications. This new standard, named DECT-2020 New Radio, targets infras-
tructureless networking with need for sub-millisecond latency, adequate data rate,
and high reliability [11, 12]. The standard achieves the performance requirements
by utilizing state-of-the-art physical layer components with added error correction,
a license-exempt technology exclusive frequency range, and self-contained private
network architecture.
    However, as the protocol is new, most commercial products for it are still in
development or starting production. Thus, for academia to further research DECT-
2020 NR, the only options currently available are software simulation, software-defined
radios (SDR) or development of their own radio devices for the protocol. In the absence
of commercial options, only SDRs enable relatively quick-to-setup measurements in
real world environments by providing customizable radio interface platforms [13].
Furthermore, SDRs with access to hardware allow additional research avenues. An
open-source project for Wi-Fi utilizing an SDR has enabled researchers to study
time-sensitive networking, which would have been otherwise challenging to conduct
with commercial solutions. This project, openwifi [14], utilizes off-the-shelf SDR
with a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and a general-purpose processor (GPP)
to create a framework that could be tailored to users needs.

1.1    Thesis objectives
Creating a similar project for DECT-2020 New Radio as openwifi would provide a
framework for further studies to be conducted on DECT. As the IEEE 802.11 project
has allowed a multitude of different research topics, a similar template for a new
wireless protocol would allow off-the-shelf solutions to be utilized to examine the
physical layer properties of DECT.
    Hence, this thesis proposes a packet detector implementation for ETSI’s DECT-
2020 New Radio protocol on an FPGA-based SDR architecture. By utilizing similar
design principles as in the openwifi project and migrating them to DECT, the proposed
implementation provides preamble detection and timing synchronization for the new
protocol. While the thesis implementation is intended to be the initial module for the
openwifi-like SDR platform for DECT, it could be further used in other self-contained
hardware projects. Such projects could be radio protocol comparison, in researching
the physical layer of DECT, as part of wireless traffic analysis, and as a part of physical
radio receiver implementation.
    In order to achieve this objective, the thesis used an autocorrelation-based packet
detection approach and a hardware-description language (HDL) Verilog-2001 to

                                            10
develop the implementation on a target FPGA architecture. Additionally, multiple
values were analyzed for a power scaling factor that is used in normalizing the output
of the autocorrelation. The validity of the proposed design was achieved by verifying
it against a reference modelled in MATLAB. Results of the implementation were
obtained by comparing it to other correlation-based packet detection models with
simulation and by comparing its resource utilization to the open-source Wi-Fi project
for the target FPGA.
    As the thesis uses FPGAs for its architectural realization, it needs a hardware
development approach compared to software-based design. However, while the
proposed implementation could be realized as an application-specific integrated
circuit (ASIC), such approach is excluded from the thesis due to the increased design
complexity and the process dependent approach. In addition, the following aspects
were deemed out of scope for the realized thesis implementation and its evaluation:
the physical realization of the proposed implementation on target SDR and support
for all DECT physical layer configurations. Excluding assessment on the physical
SDR platform was done due to the scope of the thesis implementing an FPGA-based
design; hence, evaluation with simulation with captured over-the-air data was deemed
sufficient. In case of DECT physical layer configuration, the additional complexity
for supporting multiple configurations in the realized design was deemed out-of-
scope in favor of a simpler implementation that could be further expanded into other
configurations in future works. The thesis discusses how such expansion could be
done with the proposed design.

1.2   Structure of thesis
The remainder of this thesis is organized into five chapters as follows. Chapter 2
explains the necessary theoretical background and concepts used for the proposed
implementation. Chapter 3 describes the simulation environment utilized in evaluation
and hardware platform targeted by the thesis design. Chapter 4 presents the main
contribution of the thesis and provides the development process used. Chapter 5
analyzes the proposed implementation and its results by comparing the design against
the reference model, with different power scaling factors, against other correlation
models, and FPGA resource utilization against openwifi. Chapter 6 concludes the thesis
by suggesting future works that could be derived from the proposed implementation.




                                         11
2     Background
The theoretical and state-of-the-art background necessary for the proposed DECT-2020
New Radio packet detection implementation are as follows: autocorrelation, which is
utilized for packet detection and timing synchronization; FPGA architecture, which is
the hardware system used to execute the proposed implementation; hardware-based
SDR, which is the target radio platform encompassing the hardware system; DECT-
2020 NR, which is the radio protocol that this thesis targets; and openwifi, which
is a related work with similar design objectives as the thesis on the 802.11 wireless
communication standard.

2.1    Correlation
Correlation is used in signal processing and statistical analysis to identify relationships
between sets of random variables. This thesis focuses on the signal processing appli-
cations of correlation, particularly in the domain of digital wireless communication.
A cross-correlation of two finite discrete complex vectors 𝑥 and 𝑦 with length 𝑁 is a
convolution between 𝑥 and complex conjugate of 𝑦, defined as
                                        𝑁
                                       ∑︁                     𝑁
                                                             ∑︁
                                ∗
              𝑅𝑥𝑦 (𝑚) = 𝑥 𝑚 ⊗ 𝑦 =             𝑥 𝑘+𝑚 𝑦 ∗𝑘 =          𝑥 𝑘+𝑚 (𝑠 𝑘 + 𝑛 𝑘 ) ∗ ,       (1)
                                       𝑘=−𝑁                  𝑘=−𝑁

where 𝑠 is the transmitted signal and 𝑛 is noise from the transmission channel [15,
Chapter 6]. Cross-correlation can be utilized to find a known sequence 𝑥 from a
vector 𝑦 of random elements. If the correlation and its terms are constrained to a
well-defined space, then the cross-correlation maximum will imply if 𝑥 is within 𝑦.
Additionally, the location of 𝑥 can be determined by the position of maximum and the
number of maxima will indicate how many times 𝑥 is located within 𝑦.
   If 𝑦 = 𝑥, and therefore 𝑠 = 𝑥, then cross-correlation becomes autocorrelation
                                 𝑁
                                ∑︁                     𝑁
                                                      ∑︁
                           ∗
         𝑅𝑥𝑥 (𝑚) = 𝑥 𝑚 ⊗ 𝑥 =           𝑥 𝑘+𝑚 𝑥 ∗𝑘 =          (𝑠 𝑘+𝑚 + 𝑛 𝑘+𝑚 ) (𝑠 𝑘 + 𝑛 𝑘 ) ∗ ,   (2)
                                𝑘=−𝑁                  𝑘=−𝑁

where 𝑚 = 0, the center of autocorrelation, will have maximum [15, Chapter 6].
A vector with repeating patterns can be examined with autocorrelation function
to detect existence of these repetitions. A computational approach using a sliding
window for the autocorrelation function additionally allows revealing locations of
the repeating patterns within a observed vector 𝑥. If a defined window is smaller
than the vector 𝑥 and it is slid over the observed sequence, and the window is at least
large enough to hold two repeating patterns, then parts of the 𝑥 that repeat themselves
will have maximum correlation. The drawbacks for computational approach are
possibly computationally expensive sliding window operation, determining large
enough window size to accommodate repeating patterns and plausible false correlation
detection, as all repetitions within the window will be taken into account.
    In wireless communications, both cross-correlation and autocorrelation can allow
detecting existence of a data transmission. These operations are achieved by inserting

                                               12
a known pattern called preamble or training sequence into a time domain portion
of the transmitted signal [16, Chapter 5.1.3]. The receiver then cross-correlates the
sent signal with the same locally saved preamble, and detects when the data has
been received once the maximum correlation is achieved. This cross-correlation
operation is also known as matched filter. However, determining the known pattern
from sent data with cross-correlation must be handled with care. As a transmitted
signal propagates through a path as an electromagnetic radio wave, it will experience
noise and both constructive and destructive effects from environmental multipath
components. Furthermore, as baseband processing of a signal is typically done in
digital domain, the transmitted stream of samples will experience sampling difference
and carrier frequency offset between transmitter and receiver due to unavoidable
physical imperfections of utilized electronics. These effects from both channel and
digital devices will accumulate to timing and frequency errors, which may cause
locating and decoding a preamble from transmitted signal impossible for receiver with
cross-correlation. While in digital communications matched filter improves signal
quality against noise [17, p. 61-63], the filter provides no benefits towards multipath
components.
    To circumvent multipath interference, a transmitter can send a vector 𝑣 that includes
a repeating pattern 𝑝. If a path that the signal propagates through is constant for the
duration of the transmission, all elements in 𝑣 will experience same propagation effects.
The receiver may then use autocorrelation Equation (2) on the 𝑣 to detect 𝑝. Such
approach with repeating patterns does require following assumptions: the receiver
knows how 𝑝 is formed, the sequence 𝑝 should have good correlation properties and
the utilized channel does not change during the transmission [16, Chapter 5.1.3].
As an example for such repeating patterns, IEEE802.11 packets include short and
long preamble [18, p. 2813-2814] that are utilized to detect the existence of a
transmission [19]. Autocorrelation has lower signal-to-noise ratio in noisy radio
channels compared to matched filter, thus combining both of them would trade
computational complexity for improved signal detection [20].
    An issue with correlation equations (1) and (2) is that the values of the correlations
are not properly constrained. If a receiver attempts to determine the existence of a
pattern in a random stream of samples, it must know when the maximum correlation
has occurred. A process that limits values to well-defined constraints is known as
normalization, for example to [−1, 1], where 1 equals maximum correlation and -1
maximum anti-correlation. Normalizing the autocorrelation Equation (2) for finite
discrete complex vector 𝑥 with length 𝑁 yields

                                            𝑥 𝑛+𝑚 𝑥 𝑛∗ 𝐸 [𝑋 𝑋 ∗ ]
                                     ∑︁𝑁
                        𝑅𝑥𝑥 (𝑚) = ∑︁𝑛=−𝑁              =           ,                    (3)
                                         𝑁         ∗
                                        𝑛=−𝑁 𝑥 𝑛 𝑥 𝑛
                                                           𝜎2

where 𝐸 [𝑋 𝑋 ∗ ] is the mean of 𝑋 and its complex conjugate, and 𝜎 2 is the variance
of 𝑋. If the variance of the random variable is known, then the receiver can unbias
the normalization so that the maximum correlation occurs at a predetermined value.
However, in cases where variance is unknown, biased normalization must be utilized.
These normalization operations are known as biased and unbiased estimators.

                                           13
2.2    Field-programmable gate array
Field-programmable gate arrays are integrated circuits that consist of multiple elec-
trically reprogrammable logic elements interconnected via a reconfigurable routing
matrix [21, Chapter 1]. These logic elements, known as Configurable Logic Blocks
(CLBs), consist at a minimum of a lookup table (LUT), a flip-flop (FF) and a multi-
plexer (MUX). A LUT outputs a Boolean value based on a truth table of its inputs.
An FF is a register driven by a clock, latching on its input and outputting its currently
held value. Lastly, a MUX selects whenever a LUT’s output is routed into an FF’s
input or past it to the output of a CLB. The combination of a LUT, a FF and a MUX
enable CLBs to create binary logic, or any digital logic when further augmented with
reprogrammability and the reconfigurable routing matrix. In addition to CLBs, most
of the FPGA’s input and output (I/O) ports can also be reprogrammed, granting its
users freedom in integrating the device into a physical system or reconfiguring the
I/Os depending on the use case. An example architecture of a simplistic FPGA is
shown in Figure 1.


       Switch Mesh


        I/O   CLB         I/O              I/O              I/O




        I/O              CLB               CLB              CLB               I/O




        I/O              CLB               CLB              CLB               I/O




                                                   Switch




        I/O              CLB               CLB              CLB               I/O




                          I/O              I/O              I/O




                       Figure 1: A simple FPGA architecture.


                                           14
    The main benefits for utilizing FPGAs are their ability to implement any digital logic,
reconfigurability, and parallelization. With the possibility to create any digital logic,
FPGA users may: hardware accelerate computationally heavy operations [22, 23, 24],
prototype hardware systems, create glue logic to interface between devices, or produce
digital system in small volumes without need for fabrication [25]. Such varied
applications are possible due to the electrically reprogrammability of the circuit, which
limits non-recurring engineering costs and allows modifications to the design even
during deployment.
    In addition to these benefits, the performance of FPGA architectures stems from
their inherent massive parallelization, where each element operates independently.
The only limiting factors for latency performance are the clock frequency utilized and
number of clock cycles for a given data path, while data rate performance is limited by
the available I/Os and number of hardware elements in a given FPGA device [24]. To
improve data rates, dedicated hardware elements have been integrated into FPGAs
to accelerate hardware-intensive processes and enhance I/O bandwidths. Examples
of such improvements include digital signal processor (DSP) blocks to accelerate
multiplications and large sums, block random-access memory (BRAM) modules to
increase on-chip memory, and specialized I/Os such as Double Data Rate (DDR) or
serializer/deserializer (SerDes) interfaces that increase bandwidths to external devices.
    However, drawbacks for FPGAs include the volatility of their programming where
the circuitry must be reprogrammed after each power up, limited availability of on-chip
memory, a laborious and complex development process of digital logic compared to
software development, and increased power consumption with worse performance in
comparison to ASICs for the same task [25]. In addition, while serial tasks that include
states and many branching paths can be implemented in FPGAs, such operations may
not benefit from the massive parallelization of the device. Furthermore, such tasks
can be more easily developed in software and executed on GPPs, which have become
ubiquitous in embedded systems.
    For development process of digital logic on FPGAs, hardware-description languages
such as Verilog, SystemVerilog and VHDL have been the mainstay as design tools. In
HDL development flow for an FPGA, as shown in Figure 2, the designer first models
their given system with HDL code, before synthesizing the design into register-transfer
level (RTL). The RTL is then placed-and-routed and converted to a bitstream used
to program the FPGA. Each stage additionally includes intermediary steps, such as
simulations, resource and timing analysis, and constraints. Additionally, designers may
utilize vendor or third-party intellectual properties (IPs) to accelerate development
process.
    Nevertheless, due to the inherently laborious process to create and manage complex
systems with HDLs, other tools have gain attention to ease development. One of such
tools that has gained industry wide support is high-level synthesis (HLS), where a
higher abstraction of logic is described and then converted into HDL code or directly
into RTL [26, 27]. With HLS, the mental overhead of complex systems will be
minimized, the system’s behavioural operation simulation becomes lower effort and
higher abstractions is possible to implement with minimal changes, and development
time of larger designs is reduced significantly. However, the performance and resource

                                            15
utilization of HLS generated code can be unpredictable and sub-par in comparison
to a hand-written HDL [28]. Therefore, while high-level synthesis has become more
popular due to the ease of use and rapid development, hardware-description languages
are still used in designs were performance and resource utilization constraints or
predictability are paramount.

                                                Design
                                             requirements




                                                HDL coding
                       Vendor IPs
                      3rd party IPs




                                           (Elaboration and)
                                               Synthesis




                    Timing constraints
                   Placement constrains      Place & Route
                      Port placement       (Implementation)




                                          Bitstream generation




                                           FPGA programming


                              Figure 2: A FPGA design flow.



2.3    Hardware-based software-defined radio
Software-defined radios are radio platforms which allow arbitrarily modifying the
digital baseband and controlling the analog radio frequency (RF) front end [29].
In applications where requirements for the analog interface are known or within
well-defined range, while demands for baseband processing might change rapidly or
be unknown beforehand, a SDR provides the necessary freedom and performance.
Example applications that require such adaptability are research and development,
electronic warfare and small-scale radio network deployments [13].
    While off-the-shelf SDR platforms can support a wide range of spectra, large data
rates, and high accuracy, these systems still face other drawbacks beyond cost efficiency


                                           16
when compared to dedicated radio terminals [13, 30]. A user of a SDR must provide
the required functionality for the device, which either necessitates a development
effort or the use of ready-made solutions. Additionally, while SDRs have lower power
consumption and cost than multiple dedicated terminals when transmission flexibility
is required, these advantages are lost when transmission requirements are fixed.
Most importantly, antennas that support wide frequency ranges presents significant
challenges, and in applications with high-accuracy requirement, users must account
for potential impairments.
     SDRs can be classified into two major categories: GPP-based or hardware (HW)
based [13, 31]. In GPP-based SDR platforms, most or all of the baseband processing
is operated on a GPP-host. These system typically include a secondary device that
is tasked with interfacing a RF front end, in addition to handling preliminary signal
processing in both the receive and the transmission chain. Examples of such systems
are GNURadio [32], RTL-SDR [33], and SORA [34]. Conversely, in hardware-based
systems the baseband processing is done on a dedicated SDR device interfacing its RF
end. Such platforms are typically self-contained or include an expansion card for a
user selected RF front end. Examples of HW SDRs are WARP [35], LOLA-SDR [36],
Airblue [37] and RT-WIFI [38]. While some of these designs could be categorized
as hybrid-based SDRs [13], as they utilize both a GPP and a FPGA, their system
architectures rely on system-on-chip (SOC) designs that provide low-latency on-chip
interfaces. This thesis will focus on the hardware-based software-defined radios due
to the selected target SDR platform.
     In comparison to GPP-based solutions, HW SDRs platforms provide much larger
data rates, allow precise control over performance and latency, and have higher power
efficiency per operation [13]. As most of the platforms utilize an FPGA, a system-on-
chip (SoC) with an FPGA, or an ASIC, the massive parallelization and high throughput
intrinsic to the systems enable the larger data rates, and thus both sample rates and
bandwidth. Furthermore, as these system utilize hardware-based designs with logic
gates and registers, SDR users can create custom designs and architectures that are
tailor made for each use case. The benefit for such approach is the precise control over
design parameters, which conversely translate into user-defined latency and data rates.
In addition, the HW-based SDRs that are self-contained can be effortlessly utilized in
field-tests without requirement for additional equipment.
     However, the main drawbacks for HW SDRs are cost and development process [13].
Due to the inherent slow and laborious development of FPGAs, time-to-market or time
to the prototype are much longer than in equivalent GPP-based design. Additionally,
SDRs utilizing software can be operated with various free-to-use open-source tools or
low-cost propriety ones, while their development can be done using plug-and-play
style or various software libraries and programming languages. In hardware-based
development, propriety tools are typically per device family, require expensive licences
before usage, and are typically rigid, monolithic in design and have restrictive host
requirements.
     Furthermore, open-source tools can be limited in both availability and use cases.
In conjunction with the development, while hardware-based designs can be self-
contained, their unit costs to setup are typically much higher. Where as a user laptop

                                          17
and an existing wireless modem can create a temporary GPP-based SDR, in hardware
the user must obtain the physical device before it can be utilized. In addition, HW-based
SDR is only able to support the range of operations it is physically designed for and
any limitations in the system require physical revision of the platform. Each of these
hardware-based issues are further exacerbated with ASICs, which require additional
fabrication and any faults in the design are in most of the cases non-fixable. Conversely,
SDRs utilizing software can be readily scaled and expanded, as most of the designs
can be swapped from one host to another with minimal or no changes required. In
hardware, migration from one device to another is effortless only if both of the devices
have same architecture. In most of the cases, the design requires some changes, but in
the worst case the implementation can not be migrated and requires extensive work.

2.4    DECT-2020 New Radio
DECT is local area wireless communication technology by ETSI, composed of two
main standards: Classic DECT and DECT-2020 New Radio. This thesis will only
focus on DECT-2020 NR and thus refer to it as DECT. Approved by International
Telecommunication Union Rabdiocommunication Sector (ITU-R) for International
Mobile Telecommunications-2020 (IMT-2020 Standard), DECT is the first non-cellular
5G standard. The protocol aims to provide a reliable local network that allows its
users to setup, scale, manage and operate without a dedicated infrastructure operator
as with cellular technologies [39].
    Furthermore, the standard can work independently or as a medium for both
IP, IPv4 and IPv6, and non-IP data. Therefore, the key advantages which DECT
offers in comparison to other IoT standards, such as, but not limited to, BLE, LoRa,
Zigbee, LTE-M, NB-IoT, and RedCap, are the combination of reliability, scalability
and network structure flexibility balanced with data rates and latency. By merging
state-of-the-art technological advancements, a user-definable network topology, and
a technology-exclusive license-exempt spectrum, the protocol’s envisioned main
applications are industry 4.0, public services and multimedia industry, yet supports
other local networking use cases [12]. The key values of DECT are summarized in
Table 1.
    DECT supports two types radio transmissions: synchronous and random ac-
cess [40]. In synchronous transaction mode, a coordinator allocates dedicated time
slots for each of its client devices. Such approach provides predictable data rates
and latency, whilst simultaneously allowing the coordinator to balance load between
clients. However, transmission channels with unpredictable interference, such as
ISM radio bands, such synchronization is not always possible or is too unpredictable.
To aid reliability in such access, the coordinator allocates transmission slots that its
clients may utilize randomly. The each of the transmission slots have a start time and
each random access is limited in data size by a time window during which a single
transmission must be sent.




                                           18
                        Table 1: DECT-2020 NR key values.

    Parameter                                          Value
    Minimum bandwidth                               1.728 MHz
    Maximum bandwidth                             221.184 MHz
    Multiplexing                       CP-OFDM with FDMA and TDMA
    Frame length                                       10 ms
    Slots per frame                                      10
    Number of subslots per slot                    2, 4, 8, or 16
    OFDM symbols per slot                        10, 20, 40, or 80
    OFDM symbols per subslot                              5
    Duplexing                                          TDD
    Modulation                        BPSK, QPSK, 16-/64-/256-/1024-QAM
    Maximum MIMO                            8 receiver, 8 transmitter
    CRC size                                       16 or 24 bits
    Coding rate                                1/2, 2/3, 3/4, or 5/6
                                    Beamforming, transmit diversity, turbo code,
    Other features                        HARQ with soft-combining,
                                         coexistence with Classic DECT

     Before utilizing a transmission slot, a client must check if the channel has ongoing
transaction before trying to send its own data within the allowed time window. If the
allocation is already in use, the client must wait for a random period of time before
trying again. As such, random access can also be beneficial in cases where data
transmissions are infrequent or utilize first-come, first-served transaction style.
     For radio topology, DECT allows two modes to be utilized simultaneously or one at
the time: fixed termination point (FT) and portable termination point (PT) [41]. In FT
mode, a radio device (RD) acts as a local coordinator that manages transmission and
configurations between itself and devices in PT mode. As such, a device in portable
termination may only search for, connect to and configure itself to a FT before any
data transactions. To allow flexible topology, a device in FT mode may have multiple
PTs connected to it and can simultaneously connect to another FT as a PT. However, a
portable termination may only have a single device as its fixed termination, which
means that a RD is always a FT for a PT and vice versa.
     The full protocol stack of DECT, as shown in Figure 3, is partitioned into medium
access control (MAC) layer and physical layer [12]. The function of MAC layer is to
manage user data, a local radio device RD, and networking between other radio devices.
Data from user are segmented into packets, while received data from physical layer
is combined. Additionally, four different logical transmission packets are supported:
paging and broadcasting (PCH/BCH), dedicated communication (DCH), and random
access (RACH) [40]. Each of these are then encapsulated into either a Physical Control
Channel (PCC) or a Physical Data Channel (PDC) before passed to the physical layer
for transmission, or decoded from when receiving. When communicating with the user,
two data modes are supported: Dedicated Traffic Channel (DTCH), for bidirectional
communication with a RD, and Multicast (Broadcast) Traffic Channel (MTCH), for

                                           19
multicast data communications with multiple RDs simultaneously. Both of these
are internally multiplexed and demultiplexed to the appropriate logical transmission
packets. The MAC layer is additionally responsible for facilitating communications
between user, local RD, and other radio devices by choosing an appropriate connection
mode. Furthermore, selection and coordination of radio interface parameters as a FT
to PTs, or correcting the parameters as a RD to the ones that its FT utilizes, are tasks
of the MAC. The layer additionally handles hybrid automatic repeat request (HARQ),
an error control algorithm. In HARQ, The receiver sends an acknowledgement if the
packet was received correctly or included errors. The transmitter can then send a part
of the packet again, which the receiver can then combine with the faulty one to get the
correct packet.


                                            Upper layers
                                                                     DTCH MTCH



                   MAC Control Entity
                PCCH BCCH CCCH DCCH



                        Logical Channel Prioritization (UL&DL)

                        (De-)                            (De-)               (De-)
                     Multiplexing                     Multiplexing        Multiplexing



                                            MAC security

                                              HARQ



                   PCH/ BCH DCH                      RACH
                                            Physical layer                Packet

              Sync.                               Data field                 Guard int.
               STF                                    DF                                 GI

           S S S S S S S CP    D    C
                                    P   D                                   C
                                                                            P    D       GI


           Figure 3: Full DECT-2020 NR protocol stack [12, Figure 2].



2.4.1   Physical layer

The physical layer in DECT protocol stack is responsible for connecting radio interface
and MAC layer, and management of both radio and baseband data. The tasks of
the physical layer include: multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO), beamforming,
forward error coding and decoding, rate matching, modulation and demodulation,

                                                 20
error detection, timing and frequency synchronization and transmission diversity [42,
p. 8-9]. As such, the layer can be modeled as a stream that sends segmented data
from the MAC layer to a physical radio interface and, in a vice versa manner, passes
received data from the interface to the MAC. This stream, as shown in Figure 4 for a
single antenna receiver, is a multistage chain of operations.


                                                                                  Frequency and Phase
              ADC                 STF detection          Timing synchronization
                                                                                     offset correction




           Demodulation           Equalization                    FFT              Symbol alignment




                                   Code block
           Descrambling                                      Rate matching         Channel decoding
                                  segmentation




                    To MAC           PCC /                                            Code block
                                                                 CRC
                                     PDC                                             concatenation




                    This thesis              PDC only




         Figure 4: DECT-2020 NR single antenna receiver block diagram.

    In the receiver chain, the physical layer is first tasked with receiving in-phase
and quadrature (I/Q) complex samples from the radio interface, typically after an
analog-digital converter (ADC) which samples the analog baseband. From this stream
of I/Q-samples, the receiver must determine the existence of a packet and its location.
DECT utilizes a preamble-based synchronization method, where the physical layer
packet structure includes a data field to aid the receiver to timing, phase and frequency
synchronize itself to the transmitter.
    After synchronization and correction of phase and frequency, the orthogonal
frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) symbols are aligned and the OFDM cyclic
prefix (CP) is removed. The subcarriers of the OFDM are then obtained by using a
discrete Fourier transform’s optimized version, fast Fourier transform (FFT). Utilizing
equalization and predetermined pilot subcarriers, the receiver then attempts correct
any intersymbol interference (ISI). In ISI, a channel with multipath propagation or
one that is bandlimited might cause OFDM symbols to overlap in time domain. The
symbol that is overlapped can then have distortions in its subcarriers in frequency
domain, which may cause errors in subsequent stages. Once the receiver has equalized
the subcarriers, they are demodulated to extract bits, which in digital system are binary
values. In addition, received samples are parallelized before FFT, and serialized again
after demodulation.
    With the binary stream, the receiver then performs descrambling of the data. In
scrambling, vectors with multiple consecutive 0s and 1s are dispersed, which aids

                                                    21
synchronization and reduces spurious spectral changes during the transmission. Then,
if the received packet type is PDC, it is segmented. These segments, or the single
binary stream in PCC case, are then individually rate matched and channel decoded
with turbo codes, which attempts to correct any incorrect bits in the stream. After
error correction, the segments are concatenated to obtain the final binary stream for a
given received packet. Before encapsulating the received packet to either PDC- or
PCC-packet type and passing it to the MAC layer, the receiver does one final error
check with a cyclic redundancy check (CRC). If an error is detected, the MAC layer is
informed for further actions to be taken.
     The physical layer has two major configuration parameters: a Fourier transform
scaling factor 𝛽 and a subcarrier scaling factor 𝜇 [42]. The Fourier transform scaling
factor is used to scale the size of discrete Fourier transform, which in turn defines the
number of subcarriers in the OFDM. Similarly, the subcarrier scaling factor determines
the OFDM subcarrier spacing, number of OFDM symbols per subslot and number of
subslots in a transmission slot. Therefore, the utilized radio link bandwidth is thus
the combination of both parameters, where 𝜇 ∈ [1, 2, 4, 8] and 𝛽 ∈ [1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16].
For example, the formula for nominal channel bandwidth is defined by

                              𝐵 𝐷𝐹𝑇 = 𝜇 · 27 kHz · 𝛽 · 64.

Likewise, the transmission channel bandwidth is calculated as

                    𝐵𝑇 𝑋 = 𝜇 · 27 kHz · 𝛽 · (64 − 𝛽 · 𝑁𝐶𝑃 − 𝑁 𝐷𝐶 ),

where 𝑁𝐶𝑃 = 8 is the cyclic prefix size and 𝑁 𝐷𝐶 = 1 is a subcarrier reserved for direct
current.
    These parameters are additional used to select the number of sublots and cyclix
OFDM symbols, which in turn determine the data rate and transmission time. To
transmit data over a physical channel, DECT utilizes a transmission packet structure
illustrated in Figure 5. A packet consists, in order, of a Synchronization Training
Field (STF), multiple Data Fields (DFs), and a Guard Interval (GI) [42, p. 14]. The
STF enables the data-driven synchronization, while DFs are the OFDM symbols
transmitted with a CP. As DECT utilizes time division duplex (TDD) for time division
multiple access (TDMA), the GI reduces timing constrains between different slots. To
summarize, each physical layer transmission packet contains one or more subslots,
where each subslots has five OFDM symbols. The first symbol is reserved for STF,
while the last symbol is reserved for GI. Hence, each transmission packet contains at
minimum three DFs.




                                           22
Figure 5: DECT physical layer transmission packet structure for 𝜇 = 1 [42, Figure
5.1-1]


2.4.2    Synchronization Training Field

Each physical layer transmission packet in DECT begins with a predefined STF
sequence. The function of this preamble is to allow a receiver to determine existence
of a packet, time domain synchronize, steer automatic gain control, and coarse correct
both frequency and phase offsets [43]. The field is formed with six predetermined
pilot sequences, defined in frequency domain, with the sequence selection depending
on the selected Fourier transform scaling factor 𝛽 [42, p. 15-16]. For 𝛽 = 1, which
this thesis utilizes, the pilot pattern is:
                 𝛽
            STFpilot = 𝑒 𝑗 𝜋/4 {1, −1, 1, 1, −1, 1, 1, −1, 1, 1, 1, −1, −1, −1} .

Before transmission, the pilots are transformed to time domain with an inverse Fourier
transform. The resulting sequence is known as base sequence, denoted by 𝑆, and
the length of the sequence is 𝑁 𝑆 = 16 · 𝛽. Additionally, to both allow and improve
correlation-based sequence detection, 𝑆 is repeated number of times that depend of the
utilized subcarrier scaling factor 𝜇. For 𝜇 = 1, the number of repetitions is seven, and
nine in all other cases. For this thesis, 𝜇 = 1 is utilized. As such, the time domain STF
for {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1} physical layer configuration consists of seven repeating identical 𝑆
patterns with length of 16.
     However, each of the repeated base sequences are further multiplied with an other
vector called cover sequence, denoted by 𝑐 𝜇 [42, p. 34]. This sequence has two
options, depending on used 𝜇, which are
                   {︃
                          {1, −1, 1, 1, −1, −1, −1} ,          when 𝜇 = 1
             𝑐𝜇 =
                      {1, −1, 1, 1, −1, −1, −1, −1, −1} , when 𝜇 ∈ {2, 4, 8} .

The function of 𝑐 𝜇 is to aid accurate localization of both the end of sequence and the
maximum correlation of the STF, which are required in the timing synchronization
and the phase and frequency offset correction. Figure 6 illustrates the effect of 𝑐 𝜇
in autocorrelation and cross-correlation, where cover sequence is either included or
omitted and, if omitted, with correlation window sizes of the full STF sequence or
only the base sequence. In cases were the cover sequence is included, Figures 6a
and 6b, the maximum correlation is prominent and therefore much easier to detected.
Additionally, the end of STF sequence is located at the maximum, hence both timing
synchronization and offset corrections can be operated on the same sequence.

                                             23
                          1                                                                                                        1

                         0.9                                                                                                      0.9

                         0.8                                                                                                      0.8
Normalized correlation




                                                                                                         Normalized correlation
                         0.7                                                                                                      0.7

                         0.6                                                                                                      0.6

                         0.5                                                                                                      0.5

                         0.4                                                                                                      0.4

                         0.3                                                                                                      0.3

                         0.2                                                                                                      0.2

                         0.1                                                                                                      0.1

                          0                                                                                                        0
                                 20        40   60   80    100    120    140    160   180    200   220                                     20    40   60        80   100    120   140   160   180   200     220
                                                               Samples                                                                                               Samples

                               (a) Autocorrelation with cover sequence.                                                                 (b) Cross-correlation with cover sequence.
                          1                                                                                                        1

                         0.9                                                                                                      0.9

                         0.8                                                                                                      0.8
Normalized correlation




                                                                                                         Normalized correlation




                         0.7                                                                                                      0.7

                         0.6                                                                                                      0.6

                         0.5                                                                                                      0.5

                         0.4                                                                                                      0.4

                         0.3                                                                                                      0.3

                         0.2                                                                                                      0.2

                         0.1                                                                                                      0.1

                          0                                                                                                        0
                                 20        40   60   80    100    120    140    160   180    200   220                                     20    40   60        80   100    120   140   160   180   200     220
                                                               Samples                                                                                               Samples

                                 (c) Full autocorrelation without 𝑐 𝜇 .                                                                   (d) Full cross-correlation without 𝑐 𝜇 .
                          1                                                                                                        1

                         0.9                                                                                                      0.9

                         0.8                                                                                                      0.8
Normalized correlation




                                                                                                         Normalized correlation




                         0.7                                                                                                      0.7

                         0.6                                                                                                      0.6

                         0.5                                                                                                      0.5

                         0.4                                                                                                      0.4

                         0.3                                                                                                      0.3

                         0.2                                                                                                      0.2

                         0.1                                                                                                      0.1

                          0                                                                                                        0
                                      20        40        60        80         100     120         140                                          20         40          60         80          100         120
                                                               Samples                                                                                                Samples

                           (e) 𝑆 windowed autocorrelation without 𝑐 𝜇 .                                                            (f) 𝑆 windowed cross-correlation without 𝑐 𝜇 .

Figure 6: Illustrations of STF autocorrelation and cross-correlations with and without
cover sequence 𝑐 𝜇 for physical layer {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1} configuration. For cases without
cover, window sizes for full sequence and only base sequence are additionally displayed.


                                                                                                    24
   Thus, the final time domain STF signal is a Kronecker product of the cover
sequence 𝑐 𝜇 and the base sequence 𝑆


              ⨂︂       ⎧
                       ⎪
                       ⎨
                       ⎪     𝑐 𝜇 (0) · 𝑆    ⎫
                                            ⎪
                                            ⎬
                                            ⎪
  STF = 𝑐 𝜇        𝑆=            ...
                      ⎪ 𝑐 𝜇 (𝑁 STF − 1) · 𝑆 ⎪
                      ⎪                     ⎪
                      ⎩        REP          ⎭
        ⎧
        ⎪
        ⎪      𝑐 𝜇 (0) · 𝑆(0)         𝑐 𝜇 (0) · 𝑆(1)      ...        𝑐 𝜇 (0) · 𝑆(𝑁S − 1)   ⎫
                                                                                           ⎪
                                                                                           ⎪
               𝑐 𝜇 (1) · 𝑆(0)         𝑐 𝜇 (1) · 𝑆(1)                 𝑐 𝜇 (1) · 𝑆(𝑁S − 1)
        ⎪                                                                                  ⎪
        ⎨
        ⎪                                                 ...                              ⎬
                                                                                           ⎪
      =                                                                                      ,
        ⎪
        ⎪            · · ·                  ···           ···                  ···         ⎪
                                                                                           ⎪
        ⎪ 𝑐 𝜇 (𝑁 STF − 1) · 𝑆(0) 𝑐 𝜇 (𝑁 STF − 1) · 𝑆(1)
        ⎪                                                              STF − 1) · 𝑆(𝑁 − 1) ⎪
                                                          . . . 𝑐 𝜇 (𝑁REP             S
                                                                                           ⎪
        ⎩        REP                    REP                                                ⎭


          STF is the 𝑛th base sequence repetition.
   where 𝑁REP

2.5   Openwifi
Openwifi is an open-source SDR project that implements full-stack of Wi-Fi/IEEE802.11,
versions a/g/n, on a SoC [14]. The project interfaces Linux based systems with radio
front ends, where the overall structure is shown in Figure 7. The main contribution of
the project is an open-source physical layer implementation of the IEEE802.11 in Ver-
ilog and interfacing this implementation with Linux Kernel 802.11 MAC framework.
Main benefits for openwifi are: support of off-the-shelf hardware platforms, a working
template that can be expanded and modified for further uses, and a plug-and-play setup.
The SDR has been used to study IEEE802.11, such as time sensitive networking and
real-time communications [44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51]. Although openwifi could
be modified to run on any configuration with a GPP, a FPGA and a radio front end,
project is aimed towards using AMD Zynq SoCs as hardware platform and Analog
Devices AD9361 as radio front end.




                       Figure 7: Openwifi overall architecture [52].

   The project design can be divided into two parts: SDR driver on GPP software
written in C and 802.11 physical layer on FPGA hardware written in Verilog HDL.


                                                25
The software is an interface between the proctol implementation and a Linux Kernel
framework that encapsulates IEEE802.11 MAC into an application programming
interface (API) [53]. The SDR driver additionally controls and configures the radio
front end and the 802.11 physical layer, manages transmission packets, and allows
custom user logic in both software and hardware to be utilized. As an example of the
customized logic, the project has a module that allows bypassing the IEEE 802.11
transmission packet structure and capturing I/Q-samples from an ADC on a custom
trigger.
    The physical layer implementation on FPGA is divided into five sections as shown
in Figure 8. The sections are: rx_intf, tx_intf, openofdm_rx, openofdm_tx and
xpu. The first section, rx_intf, is tasked with reading I/Q-samples from ADC and
passing them first to OFDM demodulation before writing them as bytes to the GPP
through direct memory access (DMA) interface. The section may also bypass OFDM
demodulation or loopback data sent in transmission path, if configured by the user. The
second section, tx_intf, is responsible for transferring bytes from GPP through DMA
to OFDM modulation and finally I/Q-samples to a digital-to-analog converter (DAC).
The third and fourth sections, openofdm_rx and openofdm_tx modules are tasked
with de-/modulation, de-/interleaving, packet synchronization, frequency correction,
symbol alignment, inverse FFT and FFT, equalization, CRC and rate matching.
The fifth section, xpu, handles power detection, carrier-sense multiple access with
collision avoidance (CSMA/CA), received signal strength indication (RSSI), and both
transmission and receiving header parsing.




                  Figure 8: Openwifi design block diagram [52].




                                          26
3     Simulation and hardware environment
The thesis implementation was developed on Verilog-2001 HDL using AMD Vivado,
simulated during development process with Icarus Verilog [54] simulation and
GTKWave [55] waveform analysis tool, and evaluated on a software simulation
environment based on MATLAB. Furthermore, the proposed implementation targeted
the same SDR platform as the open-source project openwifi utilized. While the
platform has satisfactory performance requirement for wireless radio protocol physical
layers, the main interest of the platform for this thesis is the prospect for future
development in a DECT framework.

3.1     Simulation environment
The software environment utilized in this thesis can be roughly divided into two
parts: algorithm evaluation and HDL development. Algorithms, which the proposed
implementation were to actualize on the target FPGA, were designed and evaluated in
MATLAB. During the hardware description language programming, an open-source
Verilog simulation tool Icarus Verilog and an open-source waveform visualization
tool GTKWave were used for simulation. AMD Vivado was the tool employed for
FPGA synthesis and resource utilization evaluation.
    The final system evaluation utilized a combination of MATLAB and Icarus Verilog
to analyze correctness of the developed Verilog implementation against the reference,
performance of the proposed design against other correlation models, and evaluation of
different estimated power scaling factors. The overview of this simulation environment
is shown in Figure 9.



      Captured or      MATLAB                            MATLAB
                                        MATLAB
       generated       program                           program        Evaluation
                                     implementation
         signal     preprocessing                     postprocessing




                                         Icarus
                                                                        GTKWave
                                         Verilog
                                                                        (Optional)
                                       testbench




                                         Verilog
                                     implementation
                                         (UUT)




Figure 9: Block diagram of the simulation environment used to evaluate the proposed
Verilog implementation.


                                          27
    The main MATLAB program consists of an preprocessing, reference MATLAB
implementation of the algorithm, post-processing, and evaluation of the Verilog’s
output. Data used for analysis was either captured from an over-the-air transmission or
generated in software. The captured or generated signal was then preprocessed before
executing an Icarus Verilog test bench and the reference MATLAB implementation in
parallel. The testing environment in turn executed the realized Verilog implementation
with the given data and wrote the outputs for post-processing. Once both the test
bench and the reference had finished their operations, the post-processing read the
Verilog’s output and reformatted it for further analysis. In case further debugging of
the HDL implementation was required, the Verilog testing environment additionally
created a waveform trace to be analyzed with the GTKWave.
    While such environment allows a robust simulation and analysis of an algorithm
and its realization on HDL, the environment can be additionally expanded to a full radio
stack simulation. In such case the HDL implementation could be analyzed in-depth
as close as possible to a real-world realization, and, conversely, the upper layers of a
radio protocol stack could be examined against an actual hardware implementation.
Furthermore, replacing the Icarus Verilog testing environment connections with a
network socket or an equivalent solution would allow real-time and real-world analysis
of the realized HDL on a hardware platform. Lastly, in full stack simulation parts of
the MATLAB environment can be replaced with a C or other programming language
designs, which would allow designers to first simulate parts of the radio protocol in
software against a real hardware implementation. The benefits for such approach is
that the simulated design could be as close as possible to the same design executed in
actual environment, while simultaneously allowing in-depth debugging and analysis
to the design with a trivial access. In addition, the inputs to the system could be
controlled, permitting simulation of rare corner cases and unit testing for both software
and hardware.
    However, even such approach lacks proper means to simulate issues rising from
analog components or from hardware-related issues. An additional problem for
software simulation is the much lower performance of the simulated system, limiting
availability of fully real-time evaluations with real-world. The performance becomes
especially an issue if the simulated design is complex or tools used for simulation
have sub-par execution time, in which case even small steps in the simulation may
take significant amount of time. Nonetheless, a full stack simulation would provide
a framework which could be further modified depending on the need and as a step
before actual hardware.

3.2    Hardware platform
The physical software-defined radio platform that the thesis implementation is designed
towards is a combination of an Avnet’s ZedBoard [56] development board and an
Analog Device AD-FMCOMMS3-EBZ [57] evaluation board.
   As the controlling part of the SDR platform, ZedBoard has an AMD Zynq-7000
XC7Z020 SoC at its core, an integrated circuit that includes both an ARM’s Cortex-A9
general-purpose processor and an AMD Artix-7 FPGA. Table 2 lists the main features

                                           28
of the SoC, where most notable features are the interfaces between the processor and the
FPGA. The 32-bit master and slave interfaces individually have a theoretical bandwidth
of 600 MB/s per interface, while the high-performance advanced extensible interface
(AXI) memories and accelerator coherency port (ACP) have theoretically a bandwidth
of 1200 MB/s per interface [58]. Furthermore, as all interfaces are bidirectional,
the total achievable bandwidth per interface is double of the unidirectional. While
connection technologies such as DDR and SerDes have unidirectional bandwidths an
order of magnitude higher, such connections require additional devices to be supported
and are rarely available within integrated circuits. Additionally, the ACP interface
allows FPGA logic to access GPP cores’ caches in coherent manner, which enables
much lower latency than off-chip solutions. As such, the SoC enables real-time
applications were the lowest latency is a requirement.

                    Table 2: Zynq-7000 XC7Z020 SoC features.

    Processor                              ARM Cortex-A9 MPCore
    Cores                                               2
    Maximum frequency                               667 MHz
    L1 Cache                       32 KB Instruction, 32 KB data per processor
    L2 Cache                                         512 KB
    On-chip Memory                                   256 KB
    FPGA                                             Artix-7
    Programmable Logic Cells                          85000
    LUTs                                              53200
    FFs                                              106400
    BRAMs (36 kb each)                                 140
    DSPs                                               220
                                              2x AXI 32 bit Master
                                               2x AXI 32 bit Slave
    Processor-FPGA interfaces            4x AXI 64 bit/32 bit Memory
                                                 AXI 64 bit ACP
                                                  16 Interrupts

     More importantly, such in-chip interfaces create opportunities to interconnect
software and hardware, as in the case of the openwifi. As the FPGA implementation of
project is responsible for the 802.11a/g/n physical layer, it can be supplemented with
the software’s ability to handle complex state machines and loops that are required in
the MAC layer. In addition, analyzing and calculating different parameters in software
is relatively trivial in comparison to the HDL. For example, calculating correct carrier
frequency and its configuration for the radio front end’s phase-locked loop occurs
seldom in most of the uses cases, requires multiple branching steps and may include
floating-point arithmetic for finer frequency granularity. While same operations could
be realized in hardware, such approach would needlessly waste resources in a process
that doesn’t need immediate response with low latency. Similarly, a real-time packet
detection and synchronization would require most of the GPP’s processing power

                                          29
and thus reduce the overall performance of the system. With an FPGA, the detection
and synchronization can be completely parallel to all other operations and even each
others, can be done trivially done in real-time and can be efficiently designed for low
resource utilization with correct algorithms.
    As the radio front end part of the SDR platform, the Analog Device evaluation
board utilizes AD9361 as the radio transceiver, with its key features listed in Table 3.
While the maximum bandwidth of 56 MHz excludes use cases where large data rates
are required, the wide spectrum support enables utilizing large selection of wireless
technologies. Finally, with two independent radio chains and possibility for both TDD
and frequency division duplex (FDD), the transceiver enables variety of scenarios for
both single-input single-output and MIMO.

                     Table 3: FMCOMMS3 (AD9361) features.

                 TX/RX chains                           2
                 ADC/DAC bits                          12
                 TX spectrum                    47 MHz to 6.0 GHz
                 RX spectrum                    70 MHz to 6.0 GHz
                 Modes                            TDD and FDD
                 Bandwidth                     <200 kHz to 56 MHz
                 TX max power                        9 dBm
                 Minimum RX noise figure              2 dB




                                          30
4     Packet detector implementation
The main contribution of this thesis is an DECT-2020 New Radio packet detector and
timing synchronizer written in Verilog-2001 for FPGA-based hardware architectures.
The implementation uses a normalized autocorrelation-based approach for detecting
STF preamble and, in conjunction with a buffering system, synchronizing user data.
The autocorrelation algorithm implemented was presented in DECT Forum NR+
conference, available at [59, Webinar Series (4): Technical II].
    The realized implementation, as shown in Figure 10 block diagram, is composed of
two major modules: STF detection and timing synchronization. The detector has three
distinct elements to detect presence of a STF preamble, which are autocorrelation’s
numerator 𝐸 [𝑋 𝑋 ∗ ], denominator 𝜎 2 , and their comparison. For timing synchroniza-
tion, a finite-state machine (FSM) and a ring buffer are used to determine a location
of the autocorrelation’s peak, which in turn allows locating the start position of the
received packet in a sample stream.




                                                       Time          Packet detected
                                                  synchronization
                                                       FSM

                                                          Offset control


                                                    Ring buffer




Figure 10: STF detection and timing synchronization block diagram, with numerator,
denominator, and FSM abstracted.



4.1    Autocorrelation numerator
A block diagram of the implemented autocorrelation numerator 𝐸 [𝑋 𝑋 ∗ ] is shown in
Figure 11. The system can be divided to major three parts: complex multiplication,
cumulative sum and magnitude calculation. The first part calculates complex valued
multiplication between current sample and a complex conjugate delayed one. After the
multiplication, the result is used to calculate the correlation with help of an auxiliary
buffer for delayed complex multiplier outputs and the last iteration of the correlation
output. Lastly, the magnitude of the correlation is calculated with an estimation
approximation optimization, and this magnitude is outputted when a preset constant
value has been exceeded by a counter since last reset.




                                           31
                                                                              Skip
                                                Auxiliary buffer             Counter




                     Complex                                                           0
                     multiplier




             Figure 11: STF autocorrelator’s numerator block diagram.


    The most important part of the numerator’s design is the cumulative sum, that
utilizes the preamble’s repeating pattern exploitation. As the STF’s base sequence 𝑆
repeats every 𝑁 𝑆 = 16 samples with 𝛽 = 1 configuration, autocorrelation for a single 𝑆
can be simplified by comparing sample at current step to a delayed delayed version of
itself. Thus, the autocorrelation equation for a base sequence becomes

                                               𝑆 −1
                                              𝑁∑︁
                                                            ∗
                                  𝑅𝑆𝑆 (𝑚) =           𝑆𝑛+𝑚 𝑆𝑛+𝑚+𝑁 𝑆
                                                                    .                      (4)
                                              𝑛=0

    However, as the cover sequence 𝑐 𝜇 is added on top of 𝑆, this simplification must
be modified. As the cover sequence only periodically changes the sign of 𝑆, then
for subsequent sequences that have opposite sign with their delayed version, the
Equation (4) becomes

                                                          𝑆 −1
                                                         𝑁∑︁
                                                                       ∗
                     𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (𝑚) = −𝑅𝑆𝑆 (𝑚) = −                     𝑆𝑛+𝑚 𝑆𝑛+𝑚+𝑁 𝑆
                                                                               .           (5)
                                                         𝑛=0

Therefore, the autocorrelation for the full time domain STF with 𝑐 𝜇 for {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1}
can be defined with combination of equations (4) and (5) as

          𝑅𝑥𝑥 (𝑚) = 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF16 , . . . , STF31 ) + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF32 , . . . , STF47 )
                    + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF48 , . . . , STF63 ) + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF64 , . . . , STF79 )         (6)
                    + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF80 , . . . , STF95 ) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF96 , . . . , STF111 ),

where STF𝑛 is the 𝑛th term of STF in time domain.
    While the packet detection’s numerator could be naively calculated with auto-
correlation Equation (6), it requires at least six complex multiplications in parallel.
Another option could be calculating one sum at a time in serial, after collecting all of
the samples. The drawback for serialization is increased latency and processing delay,
which requires the serializer to calculate the sums faster than the samples arrive in
order to support real-time correlation.


                                                 32
    A way to circumvent both latency and complex multiplier parallelization is to
calculate the autocorrelation as a flow, which combines both serialization and parallel
sum calculation. As samples arrive to the numerator as a stream due to transmission
serialization, this allows unrolling the Equation (4) to a cumulative sum. In cumulative
sum, each step is a sum of the result at past step and current inputs. The sum can be
then calculated in an iterative manner with a running total, that is defined as

                           𝑦(𝑚) = 𝑦(𝑚 − 1) + 𝑥 𝑚 − 𝑥 𝑚−𝑍 ,

where 𝑦(𝑚) is the rolling total at current cycle, 𝑦(𝑚 − 1) is the total at previous
cycle, 𝑥 𝑚 is the sample at current cycle and 𝑥 𝑚−𝑍 is a sample from 𝑍 cycles ago.
Substituting 𝑥 with complex multiplications from autocorrelation Equation (4), the
running total for single base sequence sum with length of 𝑁 𝑆 = 16 is
                                             ∗               ∗
                     𝑦(𝑚) = 𝑦(𝑚 − 1) + 𝑥 𝑚 𝑥 𝑚−16 − 𝑥 𝑚−16 𝑥 𝑚−32 .                 (7)

   However, the cumulative sum still requires two complex multiplications in parallel:
                                  ∗
one to compute current step 𝑥 𝑚 𝑥 𝑚−16                                         ∗
                                       and other for the delayed step 𝑥 𝑚−16 𝑥 𝑚−32 . To
                                                    ∗
reduce number of complex multiplications, the 𝑥 𝑚 𝑥 𝑚−16 term can be denoted by
                                                ∗
                                   𝑐(𝑚) = 𝑥 𝑚 𝑥 𝑚−16 .                              (8)

This allows to rewrite complex multiplication terms in Equation (7) as

                              𝑧(𝑚) = 𝑐(𝑚) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 16),

where one may observe that the latter term is simply delayed operation of the first
multiplication. Thus, the total sum Equation (7) becomes

                              𝑦(𝑚) = 𝑦(𝑚 − 1) + 𝑧(𝑚).                               (9)

For autocorrelation 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 , where subsequent base sequences had opposite signs, the
sign of 𝑧(𝑚) is similarly simply inverted.
    As the autocorrelation reaches it maximum at position zero, the STF autocorrelation
for {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1} will have its maximum at 𝑚 = 111. Substituting the sums with 𝑦
terms from Equation (9), the derived STF autocorrelation Equation (6) can be written
as a cumulative sum. Additionally, the structure of autocorrelation allows cumulative
sum to use only one running total. This term is denoted with 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 . By dropping the




                                           33
additional 𝑦(𝑚 − 1) total sum terms, this yields:

     𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚) = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF96 , . . . , STF111 ) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF80 , . . . , STF95 )
                + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF64 , . . . , STF79 ) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF48 , . . . , STF63 )
                + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF32 , . . . , STF47 ) + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF16 , . . . , STF31 )
              = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑦 0 (𝑚) + 𝑦 1 (𝑚 − 16) − 𝑦 2 (𝑚 − 32) + 𝑦 3 (𝑚 − 48)
                − 𝑦 4 (𝑚 − 64) − 𝑦 5 (𝑚 − 80)
              𝑦 𝑛 =𝑧 𝑛
              = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑧0 (𝑚) + 𝑧1 (𝑚 − 16) − 𝑧2 (𝑚 − 32) + 𝑧3 (𝑚 − 48)
               − 𝑧4 (𝑚 − 64) − 𝑧5 (𝑚 − 80)
             = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑐(𝑚) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 16) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 16) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 32)
               − 𝑐(𝑚 − 32) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 48) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 48) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 64) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 64)
               + 𝑐(𝑚 − 80) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 80) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 96)
             = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑐(𝑚) − 2𝑐(𝑚 − 32) + 2𝑐(𝑚 − 48) − 2𝑐(𝑚 − 64)
               + 𝑐(𝑚 − 96).

Thus, the cumulative sum of the time domain STF autocorrelation’s numerator is

                  𝑦 𝑚 = 𝑦 𝑚−1 + 𝑐 𝑚 − 2𝑐 𝑚−32 + 2𝑐 𝑚−48 − 2𝑐 𝑚−64 + 𝑐 𝑚−96 .                  (10)

     By utilizing an auxiliary buffer to hold past values, the cumulative sum can be
calculated using binary additions, subtractions and shifts. Nevertheless, the utilized
architecture’s memory elements must support reading values at the specific indexes,
which may not be always available. For example, dedicated BRAM elements typically
allow only limited access to the data with relatively large granularity, which would
be insufficient in given use case. As such, look-up table-based memory should be
utilized, as they efficiently support access with smaller granularity. In the proposed
implementation, the buffer is implemented with a shift-register, as such design approach
has lowest resource utilization on the target FPGA architecture. However, a more
architecture-independent design approach would utilize a LUT-based ring buffer, due
to its availability and predictable resource cost regardless of the FPGA architectures.
     Additionally, the numerator requires magnitude calculation once the cumulative
sum is calculated. Utilizing a magnitude estimation by approximation allows avoiding
calculating square-root in magnitude equation for a complex value:
                                          √︃
                                     |𝑧| = I2 + Q2 .

By using approximation to avoid square-root operation, the magnitude becomes

                         |𝑧| ≈ 𝐴 max (|I|, |Q|) + 𝐵 min (|I|, |Q|) ,                          (11)

where 𝐴 and 𝐵 are constants between 0 and 1 [60].
    However, the scaling requires multiplication with constants that are decimal
numbers. To avoid using multipliers, the constants should be selected to be binary
fractional numbers if possible, as such approach allows reducing the multiplication

                                              34
to trivial binary additions and shifts. For example, in the proposed design where the
constant values are 𝐴 = 1 and 𝐵 = 0.25, the multiplication with 0.25 can be calculated
with
                                    0.25𝑥 = 𝑥 ≫ 2,
where 𝑥 ≫ 𝑦 is binary right shift that shifts bits in 𝑥 by 𝑦 bits to the right. However,
the selected values amount to a maximum absolute error of 11.6 % due to the
approximation [60].
     Another approach to calculate magnitude is coordinate rotation digital computer
(CORDIC) algorithm, which could be used to calculate magnitude with better accuracy
and, depending on the algorithm implementation, higher clock speed [61, 62].
Additionally, CORDIC would simultaneously allow calculating the phase error of
the received signal in parallel to magnitude, which is required during the phase
synchronization. However, due to CORDIC requiring a number of steps to improve its
accuracy, its iterative design approach adds latency with each step, while the unrolled
version requires a multiplier at each step. Furthermore, phase correction is out of
scope for this implementation. As such, the magnitude estimation by approximation
benefits from reduced resource utilization and processing latency at the expense of
accuracy.
     Lastly, the autocorrelation numerator includes a counter that skips the first 96
correlation outputs after reset. The reason for this counter is to avoid corner cases
where a low-power signal with some autocorrelation would cause detection after
reset. As the estimated signal power is zero after reset and is used to normalize the
correlation, signals with any autocorrelation properties will cause a detection to occur.
Additionally, as the maximum autocorrelation for STF requires 112 samples, skipping
first 96 outputs of the correlation will be sufficient.

4.2    Autocorrelation denominator
A block diagram for the implemented autocorrelation denominator 𝜎 2 is shown in
Figure 12. The main logic is divided into three parts: squared-magnitude complex
calculation, a cumulative sum of signal power and scaling output with a constant
factor. The squared-magnitude complex is obtained from absolute value of a current
sample with complex multiplier. The output value of the multiplication is used to
accumulated with a running total over the STF preamble, delayed multiplier output
and last iteration of the total. Finally, the cumulative sum is scaled with 𝛼 to calculate
normalized autocorrelation comparison.
    The most important algorithm for the denominator is the estimated signal energy,
that is defined as                         ∫ ∞
                                    𝐸𝑠 =        |𝑥(𝑡)| 2 𝑑𝑡,
                                          −∞
which is for finite-length discrete signals
                                           𝑁
                                          ∑︁
                                   𝐸𝑠 =            |𝑥(𝑛)| 2 .                        (12)
                                          𝑛=−𝑁


                                              35
                 Complex
                 multiplier




            Figure 12: STF autocorrelator denominator block diagram.


   When the discrete signal is complex valued, the term for discrete signal energy
becomes                                √︃                        2
                                 2           2
                        |𝑥(𝑛)| = |I + Q| =            2
                                                      I +Q   2
                                                                     = I2 + Q2 .
For complex values, the term can be further reduced to

                |𝑥(𝑛)| 2 = I2 + Q2 = (I + Q)(I + Q) ∗ = (I + Q)(I − Q).

Thus, the squared magnitude of a complex value can be calculated by multiplying the
sample with a conjugate version of itself.
    As with the numerator’s autocorrelation, the discerete energy sum (12) can be
calculated with a cumulative sum. Due to the sum being constrained only to the STF’s
power in order to normalize the autocorrelation, the 𝑁 term is the length of STF in
time domain. For {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1} configuration, the length was 112 samples. Thus,
the autocorrelation denominator’s cumulative sum is
                                                  ∗             ∗
                              𝑦 𝑚 = 𝑦 𝑚−1 + 𝑥 𝑚 𝑥 𝑚 + 𝑥 𝑚−112 𝑥 𝑚−112 .            (13)
                                     ∗
Likewise in numerator, the 𝑥 𝑚−112 𝑥 𝑚−112 term can be delayed from the initial calcula-
tion, which reduces the required complex multipliers to one.
    Additionally for denominator, instead of normalizing the autocorrelation function
with a division, the power scaling factor 𝛼 is used multiply the power estimation
output in normalization process. Such approach avoid the division operation used
in normalization, which is a resource or latency intensive depending on the utilized
algorithm. As the maximum in normalized autocorrelation is located at value of 1,
the maximum for the normalized autocorrelation, as was defined in Equation (3) in
Section 2.1, can be located by calculating inequality
                                                  𝐸 [𝑋 𝑋 ∗ ]
                                           𝑅𝑥𝑥 ≤
                                                     𝜎2
                                      𝑅𝑥𝑥 · 𝜎 2 ≤ 𝐸 [𝑋 𝑋 ∗ ].                      (14)

In optimal theoretical case, where the signal power is estimated perfectly, the power
scaling factor should be 𝑅𝑥𝑥 = 1, which would reduce the Equation (14) to a simple
equality. However, the length of estimated signal power and correlation calculations may

                                                 36
differ because of implementation specific issues, causing a bias in the autocorrelation
output. In this thesis’s implementation, the estimated power of STF is calculated from
its full length of 112 samples, while the correlation’s calculation uses only 96 elements
due to utilization of delayed autocorrelation approach. Thus, in the ideal case, the
factor of 96/112 ≈ 0.857 should be chosen as it normalizes the correlation and the
estimated power perfectly. In the rest of this thesis, the scaling factor of estimated
signal power 𝑅𝑥𝑥 is denoted with 𝛼 as it combines both the detection threshold and
scaling.
     Unfortunately, due to noise and other detrimental effects from channel and hardware
quantization, the estimated signal power and correlation of a receiver signal fluctuate
from ideal. To avoid events where the correlation fails to exceed or equal signal power
because of the external factors, the scaling factor should be smaller than in the ideal
case as it allows the calculated correlation to be imperfect. As a result, lowering 𝛼
improves signal detecting in noisy environments by allowing detection of channel
corrupted STF. However, decreasing estimated signal power can cause false positive
detection events to occur in presence of interfering signals. Due to lowering the
required level of correlation, such action may additionally cause unwanted signals to
exceed the scaled signal power and thus result to a false detection of a packet. Signals
that have repeating patterns, and thus high correlation with themselves, are especially
susceptible to cause erroneous packet detection.
     Lastly, scaling the estimated signal power with 𝛼 requires a multiplication operation.
As with magnitude calculation in Equation (11), binary operations can be utilized to
avoid multiplication. For example, the computation of scaling with 0.75 would be

                              0.75𝑥 = (𝑥 ≫ 1) + (𝑥 ≫ 2).

Thus, 𝛼 should be chosen so that the multiplication can be calculated using only the
cheap binary operations. In this thesis, two scaling factors used are 0.75 and 0.6875,
that can be calculated as

                       0.6875𝑥 = (𝑥 ≫ 1) + (𝑥 ≫ 3) + (𝑥 ≫ 4).

Both of these constants have low resource requirements while providing improved
signal detecting capability without causing false positive detection occurrences.
While 0.75 has lower resource utilization than 0.6875, it requires received signal to
have better signal-to-noise ratio.

4.3    Timing synchronization
Due to the proposed implementation’s autocorrelation being calculated with a com-
parison instead of a division, the output of the comparison is a Boolean value. As the
value only indicates if the correlation exceeds estimated signal power, further logic is
required to locate the maximum of the autocorrelation, also known as peak. Once this
peak has been located, the received packet can be timing synchronized to its location
as it indicates the start of user data. A finite-state machine is utilized to determine the


                                            37
peak of a possibly detected STF, while an additional ring buffer is utilized during the
timing synchronization.
    To analyze decision logic for packet detection and timing synchronization, the
autocorrelation denominator’s normalization Equation (14) can be alternatively written
as
                                         𝐸 [𝑋 𝑋 ∗ ]
                                     1≤             ,                              (15)
                                         𝑅𝑥𝑥 · 𝜎 2
where 𝑅𝑥𝑥 = 𝛼 is the power scaling factor. In the Equation (15), the estimated power
is scaled with the factor. Lowering the scaling factor increases correlation, which
increases the chances that the correlation will exceed the threshold of one. Thus, the
detection occurs once autocorrelation function exceeds the scaled estimated signal
power, or in alternative words, normalized correlation is greater or equal to one.
    The effects of 𝛼 on the detection and timing synchronization are visualized in
Figure 13 with an ideal STF sequence. For power scaling factors 0.25 and 0.50, both
the autocorrelation’s main lobe and side lobes exceed the detection threshold. As the
maximum correlation is located in the main lobe’s peak, the timing synchronization
logic should disregard the side lobes and only consider the main lobe. Such logic is
further complicated if the received presumably has low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), in
which case one or more side lobes may not exceed the threshold.

  4                                                                   2

                                                                     1.8
 3.5
                                                                     1.6
  3
                                                                     1.4
 2.5
                                                                     1.2
                                                                                                                     Detection threshold
  2                                                                   1

                                                                     0.8
 1.5
                                                                     0.6
                                               Detection threshold
  1
                                                                     0.4

 0.5
                                                                     0.2

  0                                                                   0
       20   40   60   80   100   120   140   160   180   200   220           20   40   60   80   100   120   140   160   180   200   220
                           Samples                                                               Samples

  (a) Autocorrelation normalized with 𝛼 = 0.25.                        (b) Autocorrelation normalized with 𝛼 = 0.5.
  2                                                                   2

 1.8                                                                 1.8

 1.6                                                                 1.6

 1.4                                                                 1.4

 1.2                                                                 1.2
                                               Detection threshold                                                   Detection threshold
  1                                                                   1

 0.8                                                                 0.8

 0.6                                                                 0.6

 0.4                                                                 0.4

 0.2                                                                 0.2

  0                                                                   0
       20   40   60   80   100   120   140   160   180   200   220           20   40   60   80   100   120   140   160   180   200   220
                           Samples                                                               Samples

  (c) Autocorrelation normalized with 𝛼 = 0.75.                            (d) Autocorrelation normalized with 𝛼 = 1.

Figure 13: Normalized autocorrelation of an ideal STF with different power scaling
factors.


                                                                 38
    That said, if the scaling is increased to 0.75, only the main lobe will exceed the
threshold. In such case the timing synchronization becomes trivial, as the peak can be
located from the center of the lobe. Regardless, if 𝛼 is increased over the theoretical
maximum of 96/112 as in the case of 𝛼 = 1, then the autocorrelation will never exceed
the threshold. In this thesis, only the scaling factors of 0.6875 and 0.75 are considered,
which significantly simplifies timing synchronization logic as the side lobes do not
exceed the threshold unless amplified by an interfering signal.
    The state diagram of the peak detection and timing synchronization FSM can be
observed in Figure 14. The state machine works as follows: after a reset, a positive
detection counter 𝐶𝑜 and a negative detection counter 𝐶𝑧 are initialized to zero. The
FSM then waits until a detection occurs, upon which the current position of ring
buffer’s write pointer is stored to 𝑊𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑑 and the 𝐶𝑜 counter is incremented. The
logic then loops, incrementing either counter each time a new I/Q-sample is received:
𝐶𝑜 upon detection and 𝐶𝑧 when no detection has occurred. If the negative detection
counter exceeds a threshold 𝑇𝑧 , the loop is exited and the positive detection counter is
compared to a second threshold 𝑇𝑜 . If the 𝐶𝑜 exceeds its threshold, STF is declared to
be located, its peak is calculated with

                                     𝑃𝑙𝑜𝑐 = ⌊𝐶𝑜 /2⌋,

and the ring buffer’s read pointer is corrected to

                                 𝑅𝑛𝑒𝑤 = 𝑊𝑠𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑒𝑑 + 𝑃𝑙𝑜𝑐 .

Lastly, the counters are cleared and the FSM begins to wait for a new detection.
    Function of the thresholds 𝑇𝑜 and 𝑇𝑧 in the state machine is to avoid false positive
detection from noise. If the power scaling factor 𝛼 is set small and the design would not
include the thresholds, then detection events caused by abrupt noise spikes would be
erroneously declared as received packet. Therefore, increasing the thresholds improve
design’s resistance to noise. The drawback to such method is the possibility to miss the
STF, as too large threshold may exceed the width of an ideal STF’s peak or a smaller
peak due to diminishing effects from noise.




                                           39
                         Reset



                                                                        New sample
                                                                      && Detection = 1


                                                         New sample
  Correct
ring buffer              Clear       Wait for first    && Detection = 1     Increment
  offset to              and          detection                                                 New sample
user data                                                                                     && Detection = 1




 Calculate
                                                            New sample            New sample
                               No                               &&                    &&            Wait for a
STF peak's
                                                            Detection = 1                          new sample
 position                                                                         Detection = 0




 Declare       Yes        Is                          >                     Increment           New sample
   STF                                                                                        && Detection = 0
                          >      ?
  found




                                                                        New sample
                                                                      && Detection = 0



                Figure 14: State diagram of the timing synchronization FSM.


     4.4      Expanded 𝛽 and 𝜇 support
     The proposed STF packet detection and timing synchronization implementation
     supports only {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1} configuration of the DECT-2020 New Radio physical
     layer. The rigid architecture is caused by the autocorrelation numerator’s cumulative
     sum with the fixed delay elements, which enables calculating correlation in a hardware
     efficient iterative manner. Likewise for the autocorrelation denominator, the fixed
     delay element controlling the length of running total confines the proposed system
     to only a one pair of 𝛽 and 𝜇 values. However, this section explores how the
     implementation could be further expanded to function with all DECT’s physical
     layer {𝛽, 𝜇} configurations.
         In order for the numerator to function with other configuration values, various
     modifications with different design approaches are be plausible. Nonetheless, sup-
     porting different 𝛽 factor values is the primary issue, as the variable determines the
     required delay for the correlation. This is due to the factor specifying the size for 𝑁 𝑆
     term, that in turn defines the length of the time domain base sequence 𝑆. Likewise,


                                                      40
a number of sequences that sets the needed number of summations in correlation
Equation (6) is characterized by 𝜇.
    In order to achieve support for different configurations, one solution would be to
expand the numerator’s auxiliary buffer’s size and multiplex between different delay
sizes. The increased buffer is required to accommodate a larger number of samples
due to the increased delay set by other configuration values. As the number of terms
in Equation (4) equals size of 𝑁 𝑆 , and the number of base sequences depends on 𝜇,
the required auxiliary buffer size is then defined as
                              {︃
                                 𝑁 𝑆 · 6 = 16 · 𝛽 · 6, when 𝜇 = 1
                      𝑁buf =
                                 𝑁 𝑆 · 8 = 16 · 𝛽 · 8, otherwise.

   Additionally, to allow dynamic change of 𝛽, the term 𝑍 in 𝑐 𝑚−𝑍 indices would
have to be runtime adjustable. In hardware, a dynamic switch between different delays
during operation could be achieved with multiplexing. Rewriting Equation (10) to
function with any 𝛽, and thus any delay, the new numerator cumulative sum is

            𝑦 𝑚 = 𝑦 𝑚−1 + 𝑐 𝑚 − 2𝑐 𝑚−32·𝛽 + 2𝑐 𝑚−48·𝛽 − 2𝑐 𝑚−64·𝛽 + 𝑐 𝑚−96·𝛽 .          (16)

   As the delay element in complex multiplier output 𝑐 𝑚 depends on the length of
time domain pattern 𝑆, the term can be redefined in cases of 𝛽 > 1 from Equation (8)
to
                                              ∗
                                 𝑐(𝑚) = 𝑥 𝑚 𝑥 𝑚−𝑁 𝑆
                                                    ,
As the numerator delays are only integer multiples of 𝛽, a simple downsampler using
decimation could be used by taking every 𝛽th sample. To avoid aliasing from higher
frequencies due to the downsampling, a lowpass filter is required to attenuate undesired
frequencies before decimation takes place.
    The numerator has rudimentary support for 𝜇 ≠ 1 values, as the first seven
repetitions are always the same regardless of 𝜇. However, using fewer amounts of
repetitions will sacrifice autocorrelation’s accuracy, may cause false positives to occur
as the STF would be longer than sum’s memory, and add extra logic to the sample ring
buffer offset control. As the STF preamble with 𝜇 > 1 have the two additional base
sequences, the packet detection finite-state machine controlling the ring buffer offset
would have to determine how many sequences have been sent and then skip them. To
modify the implementation to correctly function with other 𝜇 values, the main issue
arises from two new sums that would have to be taken into consideration.
    The autocorrelation for time domain STF with 𝑐 𝜇 for {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 ∈ {2, 4, 8}} con-
figuration would be

         𝑅𝑥𝑥 (𝑚) = 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF16 , . . . , STF31 ) + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF32 , . . . , STF47 )
                   + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF48 , . . . , STF63 ) + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF64 , . . . , STF79 )
                   + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF80 , . . . , STF95 ) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF96 , . . . , STF111 )
                   + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF112 , . . . , STF127 ) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF128 , . . . , STF143 ).



                                             41
For cumulative sum, this becomes

   𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚) = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF128 , . . . , STF143 ) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF112 , . . . , STF127 )
              + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF96 , . . . , STF111 ) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF80 , . . . , STF95 )
              + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF64 , . . . , STF79 ) + 𝑅𝑆𝑆 (STF48 , . . . , STF63 )
              + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF32 , . . . , STF47 ) + 𝑅−𝑆𝑆 (STF16 , . . . , STF31 )
            = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑦 0 (𝑚) + 𝑦 1 (𝑚 − 16) + 𝑦 2 (𝑚 − 32) + 𝑦 3 (𝑚 − 48)
              − 𝑦 4 (𝑚 − 64) + 𝑦 5 (𝑚 − 80) − 𝑦 6 (𝑚 − 96) − 𝑦 7 (𝑚 − 112)
            𝑦 𝑛 =𝑧 𝑛
            = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑧0 (𝑚) + 𝑧1 (𝑚 − 16) + 𝑧2 (𝑚 − 32) + 𝑧3 (𝑚 − 48)
             − 𝑧4 (𝑚 − 64) + 𝑧5 (𝑚 − 80) − 𝑧6 (𝑚 − 96) − 𝑧7 (𝑚 − 112)
           = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑐(𝑚) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 16) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 16) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 32)
             + 𝑐(𝑚 − 32) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 48) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 48) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 64)
             − 𝑐(𝑚 − 64) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 80) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 80) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 96)
             − 𝑐(𝑚 − 96) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 112) − 𝑐(𝑚 − 112) + 𝑐(𝑚 − 128)
           = 𝑦 𝑥𝑥 (𝑚 − 1) + 𝑐(𝑚) − 2𝑐(𝑚 − 64) + 2𝑐(𝑚 − 80) − 2𝑐(𝑚 − 96)
             + 𝑐(𝑚 − 128),

Thus, the running total of the time domain STF autocorrelation’s numerator
for {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 ∈ {2, 4, 8}} is

                  𝑦 𝑚 = 𝑦 𝑚−1 + 𝑐 𝑚 − 2𝑐 𝑚−64 + 2𝑐 𝑚−80 − 2𝑐 𝑚−96 + 𝑐 𝑚−128 .              (17)

If we compare the derived Equation (17) to the implementation’s cumulative sum
Equation (10) in Section 4.1, it can be observed that the order of constants remain
unchanged while the delays increase by 2 · 𝑁 𝑆 = 32. Hence, modifying Equation (16)
to work for any physical layer configuration yields

     𝑦 𝑚 = 𝑦 𝑚−1 + 𝑐 𝑚 − 2𝑐 𝑚−32·𝛽−𝑘 + 2𝑐 𝑚−48·𝛽−𝑘 − 2𝑐 𝑚−64·𝛽−𝑘 + 𝑐 𝑚−96·𝛽−𝑘 ,            (18)

where                            {︃
                                             0,          when 𝜇 = 1
                            𝑘=
                                      2𝑁 𝑆 = 2 · 16 · 𝛽, otherwise.
    Lastly, the skip counter in numerator that is responsible for filtering out invalid
correlation magnitudes must also be scaled. As the estimated signal power length will
increase in conjunction with the correlation, the preset value used to determine invalid
correlations should also be increased. As the preset constant depends on the length of
STF and 𝑆, a dynamic variant of this preset could be calculated as follows:
                                        {︃
                                           6 · 𝑁 𝑆 · 𝛽, when 𝜇 = 1
                      Skip threshold =
                                           8 · 𝑁 𝑆 · 𝛽, otherwise.

    For the STF autocorrelator denominator, only the number of samples is a relevant
numeric as the module implements a simple cumulative sum. Therefore, if the position
of the last element could be modified during runtime, the module would work with any

                                                42
physical layer configuration when a single antenna system is considered. The rolling
sum Equation (13) in Section 4.2 for the denominator could then be rewritten as
                                               ∗           ∗
                           𝑦 𝑚 = 𝑦 𝑚−1 + 𝑥 𝑚 𝑥 𝑚 + 𝑥 𝑚−𝑝 𝑥 𝑚−𝑝 ,                   (19)

where                        {︃
                                  7 · 𝑁 𝑆 = 7 · 16 · 𝛽, when 𝜇 = 1
                        𝑝=
                                  9 · 𝑁 𝑆 = 9 · 16 · 𝛽, otherwise.
    For both numerator and denominator, runtime adjusting of the delays requires
careful management. As both modules rely on cumulative sums to reduce amount of
parallel multiplications, algorithms (18) and (19) respectively, then the rolling sums
must be zeroed and delayed samples ignored when configuration changes occurs. In
hardware implementations, the former operation is a simple reset, but the latter depends
on the used hardware architecture. For example, resetting all memory elements during
runtime would be expensive time-wise, unless supported by hardware, yet could be
emulated by multiplexing read element with zeros until the memory has been filled
up to the required delay. Another solution for runtime changeable delays could be
implementing one or multiple first-in-first-out buffers, which use an auxiliary counter
to determine when to read from their respective internal buffer.
    A major issue with the proposed modifications to the implemented STF packet
detection design is how the receiver is aware of the selected configuration. In the
optimal case, receiver and transmitter synchronize the used 𝛽 and 𝜇 values between
each other before or during transmissions. However, as the DECT-2020 New Radio is
designed towards network topology where new clients for a given access point can be
arbitrarily added and removed, such assumption will not hold if various physical layer
values are allowed within the network. To avoid conflicts with invalid configurations,
the receiver would have to blindly search for all possible combinations and select the
appropriate 𝛽 and 𝜇 value for a given decoded STF. As the proposed implementation
does not support such functionality without multiple parallel instances, the upper
layers of the protocol must handle cases where physical layer configurations between
transmission participants do not match.




                                              43
5     Results
Evaluation of the proposed thesis implementation was conducted with simulation in
software. The packet detection design was examined against a MATLAB reference
for logic assessment with a captured DECT-2020 New Radio physical layer packet.
Additionally, due to the proposed implementation using a fixed power scaling factor 𝛼
to scale estimated signal power for autocorrelation normalization, different values were
tested in three cases to validate the correctness of the selected scaling factors. The
implementation was additionally evaluated against other correlation designs in additive
white Gaussian noise (AWGN) with different SNR. Lastly, the thesis design’s resource
utilization was compared with openwifi project in targeted hardware architecture.

5.1    MATLAB reference comparison
The comparison with MATLAB reference used a captured over-the-air DECT-2020
New Radio transmission with {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1} configuration. The packet was sent
utilizing a commercial Nordic Semiconductor nRF9161 DK development board [63]
and recorded with a USRP B210 SDR [64]. The signal begins with a short sample of
noise, followed by the desired STF preamble, then by user data and finally ending in
noise again.
     Both the MATLAB model and proposed implementation calculated signal power
and correlation, before trying to determine the STF sequence location. While power
and correlation operations are similarly in both reference and implementation, the
packet detection algorithm differ slightly. In case of MATLAB, the packet detection
causes a plateau due to simplified decision logic: if correlation exceeds the power,
a packet is declared as being detected. For the proposed implementation, the STF
preamble detection declaration occurs only once and after a delay, as explained in the
Section 4.3. The outputs are represented in the Figures 15a and 15b, for MATLAB and
thesis implementation respectively. With visual inspection, both figures are identical:
the signal power and correlation are of a similar shape and magnitude, while detection
occurs on the maximum correlation.
     However, closer inspection around the correlation maximum reveals differences
of the detection algorithms. For MATLAB reference in Figure 16a, the detection
occurs around the correlation peak and forms a plateau due to the simplified decision
logic. In contrast, as the proposed implementation’s detection declaration is delayed
by the decision logic, the detection is delayed from the actual correlation’s peak as
can be observed in Figure 16b. While the packet occurrence notification has delay
compared to MATLAB reference, the implementation corrects this lag with the ring
buffer and offset control. With this correction, the timing synchronized outputs for the
MATLAB reference and the proposed design are identical for same input, which can
be confirmed in Figure 17.




                                          44
        10 8                                                                                    10 8
  2                                                                                         2
                                                                  Power                                                                                          Power
                                                                  Correlation                                                                                    Correlation
1.8                                                               Detection plateau       1.8                                                                    Detection

1.6                                                                                       1.6

1.4                                                                                       1.4

1.2                                                                                       1.2

  1                                                                                         1

0.8                                                                                       0.8

0.6                                                                                       0.6

0.4                                                                                       0.4

0.2                                                                                       0.2

  0                                                                                         0
                   500               1000           1500           2000            2500                    500               1000           1500          2000            2500
                                            Samples                                                                                 Samples
                 (a) MATLAB reference autocorrelation.                                                   (b) Implemented Verilog autocorrelation.

                     Figure 15: Comparison of estimated signal power, correlation and preamble detection
                     between MATLAB reference and proposed implemented with a captured over-the-air
                     DECT packet.


        10 8                                                                                    10 8
  2                                                                                         2
                 Power                                                                                   Power
                 Correlation                                                                             Correlation
1.8                                                                                       1.8
                 Detection plateau                                                                       Detection

1.6                                                                                       1.6

1.4                                                                                       1.4

1.2                                                                                       1.2

  1                                                                                         1

0.8                                                                                       0.8

0.6                                                                                       0.6

0.4                                                                                       0.4

0.2                                                                                       0.2

  0                                                                                       0
  201      221     241     261        281     301     321   341      361     381      401 201      221     241         261    281     301     321   341    361      381        401
                                            Samples                                                                                 Samples
               (a) MATLAB autocorrelation peak plateau.                                                (b) Implemented Verilog autocorrelation peak.

                     Figure 16: Comparison of signal power, correlation and packet detection between
                     MATLAB reference and implemented thesis for a captured over-the-air DECT-2020
                     New Radio packet centered around maximum correlation.


                                                                                       45
                          Time synchronized user data with MATLAB
            4000
                                                                              I
                                                                              Q
            2000
Amplitude




                0



            -2000



            -4000
                    100       200         300         400        500    600   700



                           Time synchronized user data with Verilog
            4000
                                                                              I
                                                                              Q
            2000
Amplitude




                0



            -2000



            -4000
                    100       200         300         400        500    600   700



                      Amplitude difference between MATLAB and Verilog
            3000

            2000

            1000
Amplitude




                0

            -1000

            -2000


                    100       200         300         400        500    600   700
                                                 Sample

Figure 17: Comparison for a section of captured over-the-air DECT-2020 New
Radio packet after timing synchronization in MATLAB reference and thesis Verilog
implementation.




                                                46
5.2     Power scaling factor comparison
The proposed implementation includes a power scaling factor 𝛼 that is used the
control the receiver sensitivity of the packet detection process. Before the comparison
between autocorrelation’s numerator 𝐸 [𝑋 𝑋 ∗ ] and denominator 𝜎 2 , the signal power
estimation 𝜎 2 is scaled with 𝛼 factor. The function of this scaling operation is to
aid determining if a preamble is present, as the detection is declared once numerator
exceeds denominator and lowering signal power reduces SNR requirement for STF
premable. However, if the transmission channel has interfering signals that are
autocorrelated, lowering the power scaling factor may cause the detector to falsely
flag these interfering signals as detected packets. Thus, lowering 𝛼 improves STF
discovery for signals with lower SNR in AWGN channels at the expense of increased
false positives in channels with interference.
    The power scaling factor comparisons were done over various signal SNRs in
AWGN channel for different values of 𝛼, that can be calculated with at maximum of
three operands using only binary additions and shifts, in three test cases:

      • packet detection rate with a ideal STF,

      • false positive detection with co-channel interference from constant complex
        signal, and

      • false positive detection with co-channel interference from 802.11 legacy short
        training field (L-STF).

The range of possible power scaling factor values was limited during the analysis in
order to keep the thesis implementation’s hardware resource utilization as similar as
possible between different factors. As the scaling of the estimated signal power is
done using a multiplication, only a limited subset of scaling factor constants allow
calculating the multiplication in hardware efficient manner by utilizing only binary
addition and bit-shifts.
    The packet detection rate for various 𝛼 values over received signal SNRs can be
observed in Figure 18. As expected, the rate improvement correlates with decreasing
power scaling factor: 90 % packet rate for 𝛼 = 0.75 requires ≈ 10 dB SNR, while
factor of 0.5 requires only ≈ 2.6 dB for similar rate. However, the figure contains three
points-of-interest that should be further analyzed: the perfect, or substantially better,
detection rate of small scaling factors, the almost linear improvements between factors
around 𝛼 = 0.5, and the almost exponential increase of required SNR for same rate at
factors after 𝛼 = 0.6875.




                                           47
                           100


                            90


                            80
                                                                                       0.0625
                                                                                       0.125
                            70                                                         0.1875
Detected packet rate (%)




                                                                                       0.25
                                                                                       0.3125
                            60
                                                                                       0.375
                                                                                       0.4375
                            50                                                         0.5
                                                                                       0.5625
                                                                                       0.625
                            40
                                                                                       0.6875
                                                                                       0.75
                            30                                                         0.8125
                                                                                       0.875
                                                                                       0.9375
                            20


                            10


                             0
                             -10   -5   0              5         10            15
                                            SNR (dB)

    Figure 18: Comparison of the proposed implementation’s packet detection rate for
    ideal generated STF sequence in an AWGN channel with various 𝛼 over preamble’s
    SNR values.


        In case of perfect, or substantially better, packet detection rates for power scaling
    factors lower than 0.3125, these values cause the estimated signal power to fall close to
    noise floor. In these cases even white noise may exceed the detection threshold, causing
    the detector to falsely indicate presence of preamble in channel with only noise, as
    the Figure 19 indicates. As such, while some of these values would improve packet
    detection for attenuated signals in noisy channels, they will intrinsically introduce
    false positive in channels without any intended transmissions. However, the factor
    of 0.25 could be utilized in applications where ≈ 18 % false detection rate due to noise
    is an acceptable trade-off to improve packet detection. Therefore, 𝛼 smaller than 0.25
    should be avoided due to their high false detection rate, while factor of 0.25 could be
    utilized where false detection rate due to noise is allowed.
        The other interesting observation from the Figure 18 is the improvement in detection
    capability for similar rate increases almost linearly for 𝛼 from 0.3125 to 0.6875. For
    example, lowering the 𝛼 by one factor improves SNR value by ≈ 1.2 dB for detection
    rate value at 90 %. On the other hand, for fixed SNR value, change of 𝛼 by one step
    improves or worsens detection by approximately 40 % on average. In comparison
    for same miss rate, the change from factor 0.75 to 0.6875 lowers preamble’s SNR
    requirement by ≈ 2.9 dB. Furthermore, for factors over 0.6875 the SNR requirement
    increases rapidly, as 𝛼 = 0.75 has perfect detection rate at 11 dB while factor of 0.8125
    is unable to detect any preambles at same SNR. As such, power scaling factor 0.3125
    would provide best performance when only the AWGN channel is considered.




                                                  48
                                          100


                                           90


                                           80
                                                                                    0.0625
                                                                                    0.125
        False packet detection rate (%)


                                           70                                       0.1875
                                                                                    0.25
                                                                                    0.3125
                                           60
                                                                                    0.375
                                                                                    0.4375
                                           50                                       0.5
                                                                                    0.5625
                                                                                    0.625
                                           40
                                                                                    0.6875
                                                                                    0.75
                                           30                                       0.8125
                                                                                    0.875
                                                                                    0.9375
                                           20


                                           10


                                            0
                                            -10   -5   0              5   10   15
                                                           SNR (dB)


Figure 19: Comparison of the proposed implementation’s false packet detection rate
for a random noisy signal in an AWGN channel with various 𝛼 over signal’s SNR
values.


    However, 𝛼 smaller than 0.6875 requires more complex timing synchronization,
as was discussed in Section 4.3. As the detection threshold is lowered, the side lobes
in autocorrelation function will also cause correlation to exceed power estimation,
causing possibly three packet detection events to occur: two for the side lobes and
one for the main lobe. Therefore, to correctly synchronize a given packet to the
correlation’s maximum peak at the main lobe, a more complex finite state-machine
would be needed. Not only would the FSM have to obtain the location of the peak in the
presence of side lobes, but additionally in cases where one or both of the side lobes may
not exceed estimated signal power. As such, an improved timing synchronization logic
that takes the autocorrelation’s side lobes into consideration would greatly enhance the
autocorrelation-based packet detector’s capabilities to detect signals with lower SNR.
    The outcome of test cases with co-channel interference signals are shown in
Figures 20a, for constant complex signal, and 20b, for 802.11 L-STF. In both
cases, power scaling factors larger than 0.625 do not cause any false detection, while
factors 0.0625 to 0.3125 have comparable detection rate for both interference and
actual STF preamble. In case of 𝛼 > 0.625, addition of the cover sequence 𝑐 𝜇 modifies
the STF pattern to require sign switching between base sequences, which introduces a
restricted form of cross-correlation to the autocorrelation [65]. Hence, sequences that
do not follow the restricted form of cross-correlation pattern, such as the L-STF, are
slightly less correlated and therefore require lower threshold to cause a false detection.
This result can be observed with 0.3125 ≤ 𝛼 ≤ 0.625, which have similar detection
rate trend when detecting STF or co-channel interference. However, with interfering
signals the false detection rate increase is not a steep and the signals require higher
SNR. For example, power scaling factor 0.5 has 90 % STF detection rate at 2.6 dB
SNR and same false rate for L-STF at 5.3 dB.



                                                                 49
                                  100


                                   90


                                   80
                                                                                                  0.0625
                                                                                                  0.125
False packet detection rate (%)




                                   70                                                             0.1875
                                                                                                  0.25
                                                                                                  0.3125
                                   60
                                                                                                  0.375
                                                                                                  0.4375
                                   50                                                             0.5
                                                                                                  0.5625
                                                                                                  0.625
                                   40
                                                                                                  0.6875
                                                                                                  0.75
                                   30                                                             0.8125
                                                                                                  0.875
                                                                                                  0.9375
                                   20


                                   10


                                    0
                                    -10   -5           0                5              10    15
                                                            SNR (dB)
                                               (a) An interfering complex constant signal.

                                  100


                                   90


                                   80
                                                                                                  0.0625
                                                                                                  0.125
False packet detection rate (%)




                                   70                                                             0.1875
                                                                                                  0.25
                                                                                                  0.3125
                                   60
                                                                                                  0.375
                                                                                                  0.4375
                                   50                                                             0.5
                                                                                                  0.5625
                                                                                                  0.625
                                   40
                                                                                                  0.6875
                                                                                                  0.75
                                   30                                                             0.8125
                                                                                                  0.875
                                                                                                  0.9375
                                   20


                                   10


                                    0
                                    -10   -5           0                5              10    15
                                                            SNR (dB)
                                                   (b) An interfering 802.11 L-STF.

Figure 20: Comparison of the proposed implementation’s false packet detection rate
for two different co-channel interference signals and various 𝛼 values in an AWGN
channel over interfering signal’s SNRs.




                                                                   50
    Additionally, factors 0.5 and 0.5625 peak at 8.5 dB for the interfering complex
constant signal, their false detection rate increasing before the peak and decreasing
after the peak when the signal’s SNR is increased. This is due to the autocorrelation
function of the constant signal achieving its maximum at the peak and remaining
constant thereafter, while the estimated signal power increases further in conjunction
with the signal’s SNR.
    To evaluate if a scaling factor has sufficient properties, a quality metric 𝑄 𝑚 is
proposed. The metric is calculated by
                                       (︁        )︁ (︁       )︁
                          𝑄 𝑚 = (𝑅𝑡 ) · 1 − 𝑅 𝑓 𝑐 · 1 − 𝑅 𝑓 𝑤 ,                   (20)

where 𝑅𝑡 is a packet detection rate for ideal STF, 𝑅 𝑓 𝑐 is a false detection rate with
constant complex signal, and 𝑅 𝑓 𝑤 is the false packet detection rate with L-STF. Hence,
𝑄 𝑚 indicates a rate at which given threshold experiences either packet misses or
false detection events. A value of 1 indicates that all preambles are detected and no
false positives are detected, while value of 0 indicates that all preambles are missed,
interfering signal will always cause erroneous detection, or both.
     By combining the detection rates for all three test cases to calculate the quality
metric 𝑄 𝑚 with Equation (20), Figure 21 display the results over each respective
signal’s SNR. As the false packet detection rates were almost similar for both
cases, so are the quality factors. As can be observed from the figures, power
scaling factors [0.375, 0.8125] gain 𝑄 𝑚 values over 0.2. Additionally, range of 𝛼
at 0.375 − 0.5625 have similar structure by forming a downward U-shaped curve.
However, only scaling factors of 0.6825 and 0.75 have increasing 𝑄 𝑚 that remains
at maximum quality, due to their lack of false positive detection. In addition, 0.625
receives the maximum quality, yet falls to 0.6. The U-shaped curves and the 0.625
decreasing are due to their sensitivity to co-channel interference. In channels without
any interference, such as the DECT’s technology exclusive spectrum, only the STF
detection rate in the first test case can be considered a valid metric.
     Regardless, 0.6875 and 0.75 were deemed to provide a sufficient balance for 𝛼
between receiver sensitivity and false positive detection avoidance, in addition for their
for ability to utilize simplified peak locating in timing synchronization. Furthermore,
as the implementation aims to be utilized in a SDR platform, co-channel interference
in such cases can be an issue as the channel spectrum can be unknown before use.
However, if the spectrum is fixed to a channel without co-channel interference or false
positive detection events are allowed, then 0.3125 provides the best performance.
Unfortunately for the proposed implementation, the timing synchronization logic will
fail if 𝛼 < 0.6875 are utilized.




                                           51
                  1


                 0.9


                 0.8
                                                                                               0.0625
                                                                                               0.125
                 0.7                                                                           0.1875
                                                                                               0.25
                                                                                               0.3125
                 0.6
Quality factor




                                                                                               0.375
                                                                                               0.4375
                 0.5                                                                           0.5
                                                                                               0.5625
                                                                                               0.625
                 0.4
                                                                                               0.6875
                                                                                               0.75
                 0.3                                                                           0.8125
                                                                                               0.875
                                                                                               0.9375
                 0.2


                 0.1


                  0
                  -10          -5               0              5            10            15
                                                    SNR (dB)

Figure 21: Comparison of the proposed implementation’s quality factor for various 𝛼
values in an AWGN channel over different signals’ SNRs.


5.3                     Packet detection algorithm comparison
The detection rate of thesis implementation was compared against a theoretical cross-
correlation, which was defined as Equation (1) in Section 2.1, and the reference
autocorrelation model presented in [59, Webinar Series (4): Technical II] for various
SNRs transmitted over simulated AWGN channel. The performance evaluation
comparison metrics were a packet detection rate with a ideal generated STF preamble
and a false positive detection rate with an interfering 802.11 L-STF preamble, where
both signals were additionally corrupted by white-additive Gaussian noise. For the
analysis, detection thresholds of 0.6875 and 0.75 were utilized for comparable results.
    The cross-correlation was calculated by taking correlation between a saved version
of the ideal STF sequence’s complex conjugate and a sliding window over the received
signal. The window is a portion of the received signal with a size of STF. If the
normalized correlation between the saved sequence and the sliding window exceeded
a set threshold, the preamble was declared to be found.
    The autocorrelation reference, from which the proposed implementation was
derived, is defined as
                                               𝛾
                                        𝑅𝑥𝑥 = ,
                                               𝜙
where 𝛾 is
                                         𝑅 −1
                                        𝑁∑︁
                                                                                  𝑘
                               𝛾(𝑚) =           𝑟 (𝑚 + 𝑘)𝑟 ∗ (𝑚 + 𝑘 + 𝑄 𝐷 )𝑢(⌊      ⌋),
                                        𝑘=0
                                                                                 𝑄𝐷




                                                          52
and 𝜙 is
                             𝑅𝑁 −1
                          1 ∑︁
                   𝜙(𝑚) =       |𝑟 (𝑚 + 𝑘)| 2 + |𝑟 (𝑚 + 𝑘 + 𝑄 𝐷 )| 2 ,               (21)
                          2 𝑘=0
where 𝑁 𝑅 is the autocorrelation window size, 𝑄 𝐷 is the delay and 𝑢 is the 𝑛th cover
sequence’s sign, is defined as

                                𝑢( 𝑝) = 𝑐( 𝑝) · 𝑐( 𝑝 + 1),

where the 𝑝 is 𝑛th cover sequence 𝜇𝑐 such that for 𝜇 = 1, 𝑝 = 0, 1, . . . , 5. During the
simulation, delay 𝑄 𝐷 = 16 and window size 𝑁 𝑅 = 𝑁 − 𝑄 𝐷 = 96 were utilized. While
the proposed implementation’s autocorrelation was derived from the reference, the
thesis deviates in calculating the estimated signal power in Equation (21).
    As a comparison, the reference calculates estimation from both the last 96 samples
and same sized portion delayed by 16 samples, before taking half of the resulting sum
for the two portions. Such approach halves the estimated signal power for the first and
last STF base sequence. The benefit in doing so is the perfect normalization with the
autocorrelation function: with an ideal STF, the maximum normalized correlation
result is 1 for reference and 96/112 ≈ 0.8571 for the proposed implementation without
power scaling factor 𝛼. Hence, the reference normalization is implemented as an
unbiased estimator, while the proposed implementation utilizes a biased estimator. As
the reference’s estimator in theoretical case estimates the variance perfectly, it allows
a wider dynamic range to be utilized with the detection threshold.
    The drawback for using the unbiased estimator is the additional operand for the
sum, which increases logic utilization. Thus, the thesis implementation can be consider
a balance between accuracy and resource utilization for the autocorrelation. However,
an additional benefit for using the biased estimator is the channel calculation: in
DECT’s random access, a radio device must listen to the transmission channel and
determine if the channel is free to use before sending its own packets. As such, due
to the packet detector always sampling and thus calculating channel estimations, the
biased estimator can be used to obtain channel utilization.
    For the evaluation, as a logic for the detection declaration in the autocorrelation
reference was not established, the preamble search algorithm was simplified to declare
STF found if the normalized autocorrelation exceeded given detection threshold.
For the thesis implementation, four iterations were used with different guard bands
and detection thresholds: no guard band with 𝛼 = 0.6875, guard band size of one
sample with 𝛼 = 0.6875, no guard band with 𝛼 = 0.75, and guard band size of one
with 𝛼 = 0.75.
    As can be observed from Figure 22, cross-correlation has the best packet detection
rate for a given threshold regardless of signal-to-noise ratio. This is an expected result
for an AWGN channel, where cross-correlation is the optimal solution for detecting
existence of a known sequence.




                                           53
                                      Cross-correlation (0.6875)   Cross-correlation (0.75)   Autocorrelation (0.6875)        Autocorrelation (0.75)
                                      Thesis (zero, 0.6875)        Thesis (default, 0.6875)   Thesis (zero, 0.75)             Thesis (default, 0.75)

                            100

                             90

                             80
Packet detection rate (%)




                             70

                             60

                             50

                             40

                             30

                             20

                             10

                              0
                              -10                   -5                    0                     5                        10                            15
                                                                                   SNR (dB)

                            Figure 22: Comparison of packet detection rates for different correlations, detection
                            thresholds and SNR values with an ideal generated STF preamble in AWGN channel.


                                In case of the reference autocorrelation, it requires signal to have approximately 4 dB
                            higher SNR than cross-correlation for equivalent packet detection rate with same
                            threshold. For example, while autocorrelation achieves 90 % packet detection rate
                            at 4.3 dB SNR for 0.6875 threshold, cross-correlation has same rate at 0.4 dB SNR.
                                Nonetheless, the reference model achieves better detection rate than proposed
                            implementation for same SNR regardless of selected guard band or scaling factor.
                            For example, the thesis implemention requires signal to have 2.6 dB higher SNR to
                            achieve 90 % detection rate with 0.6875 detection threshold than the reference. Due to
                            biased estimator in the thesis in comparison to the reference’s unbiased, the result was
                            as expected. Regardless, in the presence of interfering signal such as 802.11 L-STF,
                            the reference autocorrelation is only implementation that has false positives, as can be
                            observed from Figure 23. However, the interference must have relatively high SNR
                            than DECT’s STF to reliably cause false detection.
                                As such, in channels with relatively low-powered or no interference, the proposed
                            implementation sacrifices detection capability for much lower computational com-
                            plexity due to avoiding division or numerous complex multiplications. In case of
                            strong co-channel interference, such as in ISM with other radio traffic, any signal with
                            high autocorrelation may cause false positive detection events for the reference design.
                            In such cases, the proposed implementation is a viable alternative to the reference
                            for given detection thresholds unless proper filtering is added before or after packet
                            detection to reject erroneous signals.




                                                                                    54
                                               Cross-correlation (0.6875)   Cross-correlation (0.75)   Autocorrelation (0.6875)          Autocorrelation (0.75)
                                               Thesis (zero, 0.6875)        Thesis (default, 0.6875)   Thesis (zero, 0.75)               Thesis (default, 0.75)

                                  100
False packet detection rate (%)




                                   80



                                   60



                                   40



                                   20



                                    0
                                    -10                      -5                    0                     5                          10                            15
                                                                                            SNR (dB)

                                    Figure 23: False positive detection rate for an interfering 802.11 L-STF preamble with
                                    different correlations and SNR values in AWGN channel. Each correlation includes
                                    two detection threshold versions.


                                    5.4      Resource utilization comparison
                                    For the target FPGA on AMD Zynq-7000 SoC hardware, the logic usage of both
                                    thesis’ STF detection and openwifi’s 802.11 preamble are shown in Table 4.

                                          Table 4: Comparison of thesis and openwifi logic utilizations in target FPGA.

                                             Implementation                                       Resource     Amount             From total
                                             Thesis                                               LUT          1307               2.5 %
                                             STF_detection                                        FF           1153               1.1 %
                                             Power scaling factor (𝛼 = 0.75)                      DSP          5                  2.3 %
                                                                                                  BRAM         0                  0%
                                             Thesis                                               LUT          1311               2.5 %
                                             STF_detection                                        FF           1153               1.1 %
                                             Power scaling factor (𝛼 = 0.6875)                    DSP          5                  2.3 %
                                                                                                  BRAM         0                  0%
                                             openwifi                                             LUT          667                1.3 %
                                             sync_short                                           FF           943                0.9 %
                                             Only L-STF                                           DSP          6                  2.7 %
                                             detection                                            BRAM         2.5                1.8 %
                                             openwifi                                             LUT          2901               5.5 %
                                             sync_short +                                         FF           3641               3.4 %
                                             sync_long                                            DSP          42                 19.1 %
                                             Both synchronization fields                          BRAM         3                  2.1 %




                                                                                             55
    The explanations for different logic usage between thesis and openwifi imple-
mentations stems from preambles used in their respective radio technologies. For
DECT-2020 New Radio, synchronization, channel estimation, and frequency and
phase corrections are done by using the STF, as detailed in Section 2.4.1. In 802.11,
the legacy synchronization sequence used in openwifi is divided into two parts: L-STF
and legacy long training field (L-LTF).
    The function of short field is initial timing synchronization, steer automatic gain
control, aid antenna diversity selection and coarse correction of phase and frequency
offsets. Such functionality is achieved by repeating same pattern 10 times, which
allows the receiver to divide the different operations into discrete serialized steps.
In openwifi’s implementation, only the first pattern is used to detect the packet and
timing synchronize, which significantly reduces logic utilization.
    Nevertheless, L-LTF is used to fine tune both phase and frequency offsets, symbol
timing, and channel estimation. As the field has 160 samples allocated to it, openwifi
optimizes the calculation by only using it partially. Even then with only partial
synchronization, the logic utilization for the full legacy preamble in openwifi exceeds
that of the thesis. However, such comparison is not completely valid, as the sync_long
module in openwifi includes the aforementioned phase and frequency synchronization
that are missing from the proposed implementation. Therefore, a full satisfactory
resource utilization analysis between implementations and wireless protocols would
require a more complete design of the thesis implementation.
    Regardless, an important note is that while the thesis implementation uses more
LUTs and FFs resources than openwifi’s synch_short for packet detection and timing
synchronization, the proposed design doesn’t require any BRAM memory units.
This is lack of BRAMs is achieved by using architecture-specific shift-registers for
numerator’s auxiliary buffer and denominator’s delay element, which are implemented
efficiently with only LUTs and FFs. However, such elements are not readily available
across different FPGA architectures, and as such the logic utilization might be higher
on other architectures. Hence, a ring buffer-based design approach would be be better if
portability of the implementation is required, due to it being readily available regardless
of architecture. The drawback for ring buffer is the requirement of pointers for each
index to access the memory, which becomes an issue for the numerator’s auxiliary
where five pointers are required. As pointers are typically designed as counters, each
additional pointer increases resource utilization. Nevertheless, the required logic to
access the memory with ring buffer can be reduced with fixed pointers.
    For design clock speeds in the target FPGA, Table 5 summarizes performance
that openwifi and thesis implementations have achieved. The recorded values are
obtained from AMD Vivado’s post-implementation timing report with the modules
being synthesized and implemented as out-of-context. Thus, actual values for the
implementations may change due to different placing and routing when integrated as
part of a larger design.
    As with logic utilization, maximum frequency gap between thesis and openwifi
stems from difference radio technology preamble structure, which changes design
approach for a given correlation and signal power implementation. In the proposed
thesis design, the STF autocorrelation numerator’s calculation requires multiple

                                            56
samples with different delays to be calculated in same clock cycle. In comparison,
the simplified structure of L-STF in 802.11 allows openwifi to spread the calculation
over multiple clock cycles. This spreading is known as pipelining, which shortens the
achievable clock frequency defining critical path in synchronous digital hardware at the
expense of additional processing latency. Even when the openwifi design includes both
training fields, the pipelining approach keep the achieved clock frequency relatively
high in comparison to the thesis implementation. Hence, utilizing same approach for
the thesis implementation would improve maximum frequency, as the autocorrelation
normalization comparison is the critical path. Furthermore, it is important to note that
the maximum sampling rate supported by both implementations is the same as their
maximum clock frequency.

Table 5: Comparison of thesis and openwifi achieved clock speeds in target FPGA.

            Implementation                Total delay   Maximum
                                          (ns)          frequency (MHz)
            Thesis 𝛼 = 0.75               8.75          114.3
            Thesis 𝛼 = 0.6875             8.75          114.3
            openwifi                      6.8           147.1
            (short preamble detection)
            openwifi (short + long)       7.7           129.9




                                          57
6    Conclusions
This thesis proposed an implementation for DECT-2020 New Radio physical layer
STF preamble detection and timing synchronization on an FPGA. The purpose of this
implementation was to be the foundation for a hardware-based SDR framework for
DECT, similar to a state-of-the-art IEEE 802.11 open-source project named openwifi.
The packet detector utilized an autocorrelation-based approach for detection and timing
synchronization, where correlation threshold and normalization were combined to
a power scaling factor 𝛼. To support verification with real-world captured data and
minimize design complexity, the implementation was designed for a fixed physical
layer configuration of {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1}.
    The proposed implementation was verified to be identical with its MATLAB
reference design in simulation with an over-the-air captured signal. However, the
design’s detection performance was lower than other correlation-based for same SNR
and detection threshold. and the achieved performance was further downgraded when
the implementation’s timing synchronization guard bands were increased. Nonetheless,
the proposed implementation had lower resource utilization, which was comparable to
the openwifi’s 802.11 design when protocol differences were considered. Furthermore,
various estimated signal power scaling factor 𝛼 values were observed to analyze the
implementation’s performance over different detection thresholds.
    Best to the author’s knowledge, the proposed implementation is the first fully FPGA-
based research topic for DECT-2020 NR. As such, the provided implementation can
be further utilized in other FPGA- and hardware-based use cases, such as FPGA-based
SDRs. While the thesis implementation has limitations that may restrict its use cases,
each of them have been addressed with possible solutions. The current limitations
of the implementation are as follows: insufficient support for timing synchronization
with power scaling factors smaller than 0.6875, missing support for run-time power
scaling factor selection, lacking support for configurations beyond {𝛽 = 1, 𝜇 = 1}, lack
of parametrization for selecting biased or unbiased signal power estimation, lack of
support for selecting the timing-synchronized data to start from STF or user data during
run-time, missing support to select run-time guard band sizes, architecture-based buffer
optimization that increases logic utilization between different FPGA architectures,
and inadequate maximum clock frequency in comparison to openwifi.
    For future works, other than fixing the listed limitations, the thesis implementation
could be integrated as part of a SDR framework for DECT-2020 New Radio, or in other
hardware-based projects. Additionally, the simulation environment utilized during
this thesis could be expanded to encompass full DECT stack, creating a possibility for
software simulation of hardware-based DECT designs and research.




                                           58
References
 [1] M. Miller, The Internet of things: how smart TVs, smart Cars, smart homes, and
     smart cities are changing the world, 1st ed. Indianapolic, Indiana: Que, 2015.

 [2] U. Dampage, L. Bandaranayake, R. Wanasinghe, K. Kottahachchi, and
     B. Jayasanka, “Forest fire detection system using wireless sensor networks
     and machine learning,” Scientific Reports, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 1–11, July 2022.

 [3] Y. Liu, K. Akram Hassan, M. Karlsson, O. Weister, and S. Gong, “Active Plant
     Wall for Green Indoor Climate Based on Cloud and Internet of Things,” IEEE
     Access, vol. 6, pp. 33 631–33 644, 2018.

 [4] IEEE Spectrum, “Amazon Shows Off Impressive New Warehouse Robots,”
     [Online]. Available from: https://spectrum.ieee.org/amazon-warehouse-robots,
     [Accessed 2024-09-30].

 [5] G. Yang, L. Xie, M. Mäntysalo, X. Zhou, Z. Pang, L. D. Xu, S. Kao-Walter,
     Q. Chen, and L.-R. Zheng, “A Health-IoT Platform Based on the Integration of
     Intelligent Packaging, Unobtrusive Bio-Sensor, and Intelligent Medicine Box,”
     IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 2180–2191, Nov
     2014.

 [6] L. Chettri and R. Bera, “A Comprehensive Survey on Internet of Things (IoT)
     Toward 5G Wireless Systems,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no. 1,
     pp. 16–32, Jan 2020.

 [7] M. N. Bhuiyan, M. M. Rahman, M. M. Billah, and D. Saha, “Internet of
     Things (IoT): A Review of Its Enabling Technologies in Healthcare Applications,
     Standards Protocols, Security, and Market Opportunities,” IEEE Internet of
     Things Journal, vol. 8, no. 13, pp. 10 474–10 498, July 2021.

 [8] A. Fuller, Z. Fan, C. Day, and C. Barlow, “Digital Twin: Enabling Technologies,
     Challenges and Open Research,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 108 952–108 971,
     2020.

 [9] E. Sisinni, A. Saifullah, S. Han, U. Jennehag, and M. Gidlund, “Industrial Internet
     of Things: Challenges, Opportunities, and Directions,” IEEE Transactions on
     Industrial Informatics, vol. 14, no. 11, pp. 4724–4734, Nov 2018.

[10] B. Chen, J. Wan, L. Shu, P. Li, M. Mukherjee, and B. Yin, “Smart Factory
     of Industry 4.0: Key Technologies, Application Case, and Challenges,” IEEE
     Access, vol. 6, pp. 6505–6519, 2018.

[11] European Telecommunications Standards Institute, “Digital Enhanced Cordless
     Telecommunications (DECT),” [Online]. Available from: https://www.etsi.org/t
     echnologies/dect, [Accessed 2024-09-30].



                                          59
[12] R. Kovalchukov, D. Moltchanov, J. Pirskanen, J. Säe, J. Numminen, Y. Kouch-
     eryavy, and M. Valkama, “DECT-2020 New Radio: The Next Step toward 5G
     Massive Machine-Type Communications,” IEEE Communications Magazine,
     vol. 60, no. 6, pp. 58–64, June 2022.

[13] R. Akeela and B. Dezfouli, “Software-defined Radios: Architecture,
     state-of-the-art, and challenges,” Computer Communications, vol. 128, pp.
     106–125, 2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/arti
     cle/pii/S0140366418302937

[14] X. Jiao, W. Liu, M. Mehari, M. Aslam, and I. Moerman, “openwifi: a free and
     open-source IEEE802.11 SDR implementation on SoC,” in 2020 IEEE 91st
     Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2020-Spring), May 2020, pp. 1–2.

[15] S. M. S.-M. Kuo, B. H. Lee, and W. Tian, Real-time digital signal processing
     : fundamentals, implementations and applications, 3rd ed. Chichester, West
     Sussex: Wiley, 2013.

[16] R. Heath, Introduction to Wireless Digital Communication: A Signal Processing
     Perspective, 1st ed. Pearson, 2017.

[17] H.-C. Yang, Introduction to digital wireless communications, ser. IET Telecom-
     munications Series ; 72. London, England: The Institution of Engineering and
     Technology, 2017 - 2017.

[18] “IEEE Standard for Information Technology–Telecommunications and Informa-
     tion Exchange between Systems - Local and Metropolitan Area Networks–Specific
     Requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and
     Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications,” IEEE Std 802.11-2020 (Revision of IEEE
     Std 802.11-2016), pp. 1–4379, Feb 2021.

[19] E. Sourour, H. El-Ghoroury, and D. McNeill, “Frequency offset estimation and
     correction in the IEEE 802.11a WLAN,” in IEEE 60th Vehicular Technology
     Conference, 2004. VTC2004-Fall. 2004, vol. 7, Sep. 2004, pp. 4923–4927 Vol.
     7.

[20] Z. Xiao, D. Jin, and N. Ge, “Matched Filter-Autocorrelation (MF-AC) for Packet
     Detection in Multipath Channels,” IEEE Communications Letters, vol. 17, no. 8,
     pp. 1608–1611, August 2013.

[21] R. Wood and R. Woods, FPGA-based implementation of signal processing
     systems, 1st ed. Chichester, United Kingdom: John Wiley & Sons, 2008.

[22] P. Possa, D. Schaillie, and C. Valderrama, “FPGA-based hardware acceleration:
     A CPU/accelerator interface exploration,” in 2011 18th IEEE International
     Conference on Electronics, Circuits, and Systems, Dec 2011, pp. 374–377.




                                        60
[23] J. Fowers, J.-Y. Kim, D. Burger, and S. Hauck, “A scalable high-bandwidth
     architecture for lossless compression on fpgas,” in The 23rd IEEE International
     Symposium on Field-Programmable Custom Computing Machines. IEEE –
     Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, May 2015. [Online]. Available:
     https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/publication/a-scalable-high-bandw
     idth-architecture-for-lossless-compression-on-fpgas/

[24] A. Nechi, L. Groth, S. Mulhem, F. Merchant, R. Buchty, and M. Berekovic,
     “FPGA-based Deep Learning Inference Accelerators: Where Are We Standing?”
     ACM Trans. Reconfigurable Technol. Syst., vol. 16, no. 4, Oct. 2023. [Online].
     Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3613963

[25] P. Alfke, “20 years of FPGA evolution from glue logic to major system compo-
     nent,” in 2007 IEEE Hot Chips 19 Symposium (HCS), Aug 2007, pp. 1–19.

[26] P. Coussy, D. D. Gajski, M. Meredith, and A. Takach, “An Introduction to
     High-Level Synthesis,” IEEE Design & Test of Computers, vol. 26, no. 4, pp.
     8–17, July 2009.

[27] R. Nane, V.-M. Sima, C. Pilato, J. Choi, B. Fort, A. Canis, Y. T. Chen, H. Hsiao,
     S. Brown, F. Ferrandi, J. Anderson, and K. Bertels, “A Survey and Evaluation
     of FPGA High-Level Synthesis Tools,” IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided
     Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 35, no. 10, pp. 1591–1604, Oct
     2016.

[28] S. Lahti, P. Sjövall, J. Vanne, and T. D. Hämäläinen, “Are We There Yet? A Study
     on the State of High-Level Synthesis,” IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided
     Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 38, no. 5, pp. 898–911, May
     2019.

[29] J. Mitola, “Software radios: Survey, critical evaluation and future directions,”
     IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 25–36,
     April 1993.

[30] D. Sinha, A. K. Verma, and S. Kumar, “Software defined radio: Operation,
     challenges and possible solutions,” in 2016 10th International Conference on
     Intelligent Systems and Control (ISCO), Jan 2016, pp. 1–5.

[31] D. M. Molla, H. Badis, L. George, and M. Berbineau, “Software Defined Radio
     Platforms for Wireless Technologies,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 26 203–26 229,
     2022.

[32] GNU Radio project, “GNURadio,” [Online]. Available from: https://www.gnur
     adio.org/, [Accessed 2024-09-30].

[33] R. W. Stewart, K. W. Barlee, D. S. W. Atkinson, and L. H. Crockett, Software
     Defined Radio using MATLAB & Simulink and the RTL-SDR. Glasgow, 2015.


                                         61
[34] K. Tan, H. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, J. Fang, and G. M. Voelker, “Sora:
     high-performance software radio using general-purpose multi-core processors,”
     Commun. ACM, vol. 54, no. 1, p. 99–107, Jan 2011. [Online]. Available:
     https://doi.org/10.1145/1866739.1866760

[35] A. Khattab, J. Camp, C. Hunter, P. Murphy, A. Sabharwal, and E. W. Knightly,
     “WARP: a flexible platform for clean-slate wireless medium access protocol
     design,” SIGMOBILE Mob. Comput. Commun. Rev., vol. 12, no. 1, p. 56–58,
     jan 2008. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/1374512.1374532

[36] O. Etrillard, R. Gerzaguet, L. Feichter, M. Mabon, A. Courtay, and O. Berder,
     “LOLA SDR: Low Power Low Latency Software Defined Radio for Broadcast
     Audio Applications,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems II: Express
     Briefs, vol. 70, no. 2, pp. 481–485, February 2023.

[37] M. C. Ng, K. E. Fleming, M. Vutukuru, S. Gross, Arvind, and
     H. Balakrishnan, “Airblue: a system for cross-layer wireless protocol
     development,” in Proceedings of the 6th ACM/IEEE Symposium on Architectures
     for Networking and Communications Systems, ser. ANCS ’10. New York,
     NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2010. [Online]. Available:
     https://doi.org/10.1145/1872007.1872013

[38] Z. Yun, P. Wu, S. Zhou, A. K. Mok, M. Nixon, and S. Han, “RT-WiFi on
     Software-Defined Radio: Design and Implementation,” in 2022 IEEE 28th
     Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS), May
     2022, pp. 254–266.

[39] M. D. Perez-Guirao, T. Weisshaupt, and A. Wilzeck, “DECT NR+:Unveiling
     the Essentials of a new non-cellular 5G Standard for Verticals,” in Mobile
     Communication - Technologies and Applications; 26th ITG-Symposium, May
     2022, pp. 1–6.

[40] ETSI TS 103 636-4, DECT-2020 New Radio (NR); Part 4: MAC layer; Release
     1, European Telecommunications Standards Institute Std., 2023. [Online].
     Available: https://www.etsi.org

[41] ETSI TS 103 636-1, DECT-2020 New Radio (NR); Part 1: Overview; Release
     1, European Telecommunications Standards Institute Std., 2023. [Online].
     Available: https://www.etsi.org

[42] ETSI TS 103 636-3, DECT-2020 New Radio (NR); Part 3: Physical layer;
     Release 1, European Telecommunications Standards Institute Std., 2023.
     [Online]. Available: https://www.etsi.org

[43] T. Schmidl and D. Cox, “Robust frequency and timing synchronization for
     OFDM,” IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 45, no. 12, pp. 1613–
     1621, Dec 1997.


                                       62
[44] J. Haxhibeqiri, X. Jiao, M. Aslam, I. Moerman, and J. Hoebeke, “Enabling TSN
     over IEEE 802.11: Low-overhead Time Synchronization for Wi-Fi Clients,”
     in 2021 22nd IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology (ICIT),
     vol. 1, March 2021, pp. 1068–1073.

[45] M. Aslam, W. Liu, X. Jiao, J. Haxhibeqiri, J. Hoebeke, I. Moerman, E. Municio,
     P. Isolani, G. Miranda, and J. Marquez-Barja, “High Precision Time Synchro-
     nization on Wi-Fi based Multi-Hop Network,” in IEEE INFOCOM 2021 - IEEE
     Conference on Computer Communications Workshops (INFOCOM WKSHPS),
     May 2021, pp. 1–2.

[46] M. Aslam, W. Liu, X. Jiao, J. Haxhibeqiri, G. Miranda, J. Hoebeke, J. Marquez-
     Barja, and I. Moerman, “Hardware Efficient Clock Synchronization Across Wi-Fi
     and Ethernet-Based Network Using PTP,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial
     Informatics, vol. 18, no. 6, pp. 3808–3819, June 2022.

[47] P. Avila-Campos, J. Haxhibeqiri, I. Moerman, and J. Hoebeke, “Impactless
     Beacon-Based Wireless TSN Association Procedure,” in 2022 IEEE 18th Inter-
     national Conference on Factory Communication Systems (WFCS), April 2022,
     pp. 1–8.

[48] L. Baldesi, F. Restuccia, and T. Melodia, “ChARM: NextG Spectrum Sharing
     Through Data-Driven Real-Time O-RAN Dynamic Control,” in IEEE INFOCOM
     2022 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications, May 2022, pp. 240–249.

[49] J. Haxhibeqiri, P. A. Campos, I. Moerman, and J. Hoebeke, “Safety-related
     Applications over Wireless Time-Sensitive Networks,” in 2022 IEEE 27th
     International Conference on Emerging Technologies and Factory Automation
     (ETFA), Sep. 2022, pp. 1–8.

[50] L. Zhang, S. C. Liew, and H. Chen, “A Just-in-Time Networking Framework
     for Minimizing Request-Response Latency of Wireless Time-Sensitive Applica-
     tions,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 10, no. 8, pp. 7126–7142, April
     2023.

[51] G. Miranda, J. Haxhibeqiri, N. Slamnik-krĳeštorac, X. Jiao, J. Hoebeke, I. Mo-
     erman, D. F. Macedo, and J. M. Marquez-Barja, “The Quality-Aware and
     Vertical-Tailored Management of Wireless Time-Sensitive Networks,” IEEE
     Internet of Things Magazine, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 142–148, December 2022.

[52] X. Jiao, W. Liu, M. Mehari, H. Thĳs, and A. Muhammad. open-source
     IEEE802.11/Wi-Fi baseband chip/FPGA design. [Online]. Available from:
     https://github.com/open-sdr/openwifi. [Accessed 2024-09-30].

[53] The kernel development community, “mac80211 subsystem,” [Online]. Available
     from: https://docs.kernel.org/driver-api/80211/mac80211.html, [Accessed
     2024-09-30].


                                        63
[54] Stephen Williams, “Icarus Verilog,” [Online]. Available from: https://steveicaru
     s.github.io/iverilog/, [Accessed 2024-09-30].

[55] Tony Bybell, “GTKWave,” [Online]. Available from: https://gtkwave.sourceforg
     e.net/, [Accessed 2024-09-30].

[56] Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., “Avnet ZedBoard,” [Online]. Available from:
     https://www.xilinx.com/products/boards-and-kits/1-8dyf-11.html, [Accessed
     2024-09-30].

[57] Analog Devices, Inc., “AD-FMCOMMS3-EBZ,” [Online]. Available from:
     https://www.analog.com/en/resources/evaluation-hardware-and-softwar
     e/evaluation-boards-kits/EVAL-AD-FMCOMMS3-EBZ.html, [Accessed
     2024-09-30].

[58] Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Zynq 7000 SoC Technical Reference Manual
     (UG585), 06 2023. [Online]. Available: https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug585-z
     ynq-7000-SoC-TRM/Zynq-7000-SoC-Technical-Reference-Manual

[59] DECT Forum, “NR+ Lower Layers,” [Online]. Available from: https://www.de
     ct.org/nrplus, [Accessed 2024-09-30].

[60] R. G. Lyons, Understanding Digital Signal Processing, 3rd ed.          Place of
     publication not identified: Prentice Hall, 2011.

[61] J. E. Volder, “The CORDIC Trigonometric Computing Technique,” IRE Trans-
     actions on Electronic Computers, vol. EC-8, no. 3, pp. 330–334, Sep. 1959.

[62] R. Andraka, “A survey of CORDIC algorithms for FPGA based computers,”
     in Proceedings of the 1998 ACM/SIGDA Sixth International Symposium on
     Field Programmable Gate Arrays, ser. FPGA ’98. New York, NY, USA:
     Association for Computing Machinery, 1998, p. 191–200. [Online]. Available:
     https://doi.org/10.1145/275107.275139

[63] Nordic Semiconductor ASA, “nRF9161 DK,” [Online]. Available from: https:
     //www.nordicsemi.com/Products/Development-hardware/nrf9161-dk,
     [Accessed 2024-09-30].

[64] Ettus Research LLC., “USRP B210,” [Online]. Available from: https://www.et
     tus.com/all-products/ub210-kit/, [Accessed 2024-09-30].

[65] A. B. Awoseyila, C. Kasparis, and B. G. Evans, “Improved preamble-aided
     timing estimation for OFDM systems,” IEEE Communications Letters, vol. 12,
     no. 11, pp. 825–827, November 2008.




                                         64
