Master’s Programme in Electronics and Electrical Engineering



IoT Device Authentication in 5G Networks

Quoc Quang Ngo




                                                               Master’s Thesis
                                                               2025
Author Quoc Quang Ngo
Title IoT Device Authentication in 5G Networks
Degree programme Electronics and Electrical Engineering
Major Communications Engineering
Supervisor Kalle Ruttik (PhD)
Advisors Dang Yongchao (PhD), Veli-Matti Rantanen (MSc)
Date 12 Septemper 2025          Number of pages 54+10             Language English
Abstract
The rapid expansion of the Internet of Things and Industrial IoT has accelerated the
adoption of distributed sensing, automation, and data-driven decision-making across
critical sectors such as manufacturing, energy, healthcare, and logistics. IoT devices
typically possess limited computational resources, heterogeneous hardware architec-
tures, and diverse communication protocols, making secure and scalable integration
into modern communication infrastructures a persistent challenge. Although 5G
provides high reliability, ultra-low latency, and massive connectivity—factors which
makes it a promising foundation for IoT systems—current integration approaches often
rely on complex architectures, proprietary gateways, and heavyweight security frame-
works that limit their practicality in resource-constrained and industrial environments.
To address these limitations, this thesis presents a lightweight and interoperable IoT-
to-5G integration framework featuring a minimal User Equipment and gNB gateway
stack implemented in C. The system can operate directly on embedded IoT devices
such as Raspberry Pi and non-cellular IIoT platforms like DECT-2020 NR, e.g. Nordic
Semiconductor nRF91 family. Moreover, the UE and gNB gateways are designed
to connect seamlessly with the private 5G Core Networks for device authentication,
enabling secure, scalable, and standards-compliant integration across heterogeneous
IoT environments. Experimental validation demonstrates that the designed UE and
gNB gateway interoperate seamlessly with both commercial and open-source 5G
systems, including Cumucore, OpenAirInterface, and free5GC. Unlike traditional IoT
gateways that locally handle protocol translation and security overhead, the proposed
design offloads authentication, session management, and traffic control directly to the
5GC, thereby reducing the computational burden on edge IoT and IIoT devices while
ensuring full compliance with 3GPP standards.
Keywords IoT , IIoT , Authentication, 5G Core, Private 5G, 3GPP
Contents
Abstract                                                                           2

Contents                                                                           3

1   Introduction                                                                   7

2   Literature Review                                                            9
    2.1 Internet of Things . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
         2.1.1 IoT architecture and communication models . . . . . . . . .       9
         2.1.2 Resource constraints and interoperability challenges . . . . 12
         2.1.3 Security threats and vulnerabilities in IoT systems . . . . . . 12
    2.2 5G-Enabled IoT Integration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
         2.2.1 5G architecture overview and key feature . . . . . . . . . . 14
         2.2.2 5G system reference mode . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
    2.3 Security Frameworks in 5G for IoT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
         2.3.1 5G security architecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
         2.3.2 EAP-AKA’ and 5G-AKA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
         2.3.3 Non-3GPP access security and integration with private 5G cores 22
    2.4 NAS and NGAP Message Procedure in 5G-AKA . . . . . . . . . . 26
         2.4.1 NAS Message Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
         2.4.2 NAS Message Exchange . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
         2.4.3 NGAP Message Structure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
    2.5 IoT Security Enhancements Beyond 5G . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

3   System Design and Methodology                                                  31
    3.1 Design Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
    3.2 System Architecture Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       32
         3.2.1 IoT User Equipment (UE) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         34
         3.2.2 gNB Gateway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       34
         3.2.3 5G Core Network (5GC) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         35
    3.3 Control Plane Signaling and Security Mechanisms . . . . . . . . . .        35

4   Implementation and Evaluation                                                  36
    4.1 System Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     36
    4.2 Implementation Details . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     39
         4.2.1 UE implementation and authentication handling . . . . . . .         39
         4.2.2 gNB gateway integration and message forwarding . . . . . .          41
         4.2.3 5GC configuration and interoperability validation . . . . . .       41
    4.3 Evaluation and Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     43
         4.3.1 Functionality Validation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      44
         4.3.2 Performance Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        44
         4.3.3 Security-Related Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       46
    4.4 Discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46


                                          3
5   Conclusion and Future Work       48

References                           49

A Confidentiality Algorithm          55

B NAS Content                        60

C Code Snippets                      63

D Sequence Diagram                   64




                                 4
List of Abbreviations

AAA        Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting
AMF        Access and Mobility Management Function
ARPF       Authentication credential Repository and Processing Function
AUSF       Authentication Server Function
AUTN       Authentication Token
B5G        Beyond 5G
CK         Cipher Key
CTR        Counter mode
D2D        Device-to-Device
DoS        Denial of Service
eMBB       Enhanced Mobile Broadband
EAP-AKA    Extensible Authentication Protocol – Authentication and Key Agreement
EAP-AKA′   Extensible Authentication Protocol – Authentication and Key Agreement Prime
gNB        Next Generation Node B
HPLMN      Home Public Land Mobile Network
HSS        Home Subscriber Server
IE         Information Element
IIoT       Industrial Internet of Things
IK         Integrity Key
IoT        Internet of Things
IDS        Intrusion Detection System
IP         Internet Protocol
KDF        Key Derivation Function
MAC        Message Authentication Code
MCC        Mobile Country Code
mMTC       Massive Machine-Type Communications
MNC        Mobile Network Code
N3IWF      Non-3GPP Interworking Function
NEF        Network Exposure Function
NR         New Radio
NRF        Network Repository Function
OAI        OpenAirInterface
PCF        Policy Control Function
PER        Packet Error Rate
PLMN       Public Land Mobile Network
SA         Security Association
SBA        Service-Based Architecture
SCTP       Stream Control Transmission Protocol
SMF        Session Management Function
SNPN       Standalone Non-Public Network
SoftSIM    Software-based SIM
SUCI       Subscription Concealed Identifier


                                   5
SUPI     Subscription Permanent Identifier
5G       Fifth Generation (mobile network)
5G-AKA   5G Authentication and Key Agreement
5GC      5G Core
TNGF     Trusted Non-3GPP Gateway Function
TSN      Time-Sensitive Networking
UDM      Unified Data Management
UE       User Equipment
UPF      User Plane Function
URLLC    Ultra-Reliable Low-Latency Communications
WAT      Wireless Authentication Technology
RAND     Random Challenge
URL      Uniform Resource Locator




                                6
1    Introduction
The rapid growth of the Internet of Things (IoT) and its industrial counterpart, the
Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), is transforming domains, such as automation,
manufacturing, healthcare, logistics, as well as critical infrastructures. As illustrated
in Fig. 1, the number of connected IoT devices worldwide has grown dramatically,
rising from 12.6 billion in 2015 to a projected 33.4 billion in 2025—nearly tripling
within a decade. By enabling interconnected devices to exchange, process, and act on
data, IoT technologies contribute to increased efficiency, productivity, together with
intelligent decision-making in many fields [1–3]. In the industry, IIoT has become a
key enabler of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0) through the integration
of distributed sensing, monitoring, and control [4, 5]. This integration helps enhance
productivity as well as mitigates the need for human intervention, thereby increasing
revenue while reducing costs.




Figure 1: Report of total number of connected devices worldwide from 2015-2025
from Ericsson. Adapted from [6]

    Despite these benefits, IoT/IIoT devices remain highly resource-constrained,
heterogeneous, as well as exposed to evolving cyber-physical threats. Security, privacy,
and trust are critical for IIoT where the entire industrial ecosystem can be damaged

                                           7
due to a single device malfunction. To address these risks, various mechanisms have
been proposed. Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) have been widely adopted to
monitor, analyze, and detect malicious behavior in IoT/IIoT networks [4]. Recent
trends focus in machine learning, deep learning, together with ensemble methods
to improve accuracy and adaptability [7–9]. Moreover, blockchain technology has
been introduced to IIoT architectures as a distributed, tamper-resistant technology
that enhances privacy, scalability, and security, especially when combined with 5G
and edge computing [10–13]. Aside from these generic IoT approaches, researchers
have increasingly focused on securing 5G-enabled IoT systems. There has been an
extensive review of 5G IoT, categorizing solutions as blockchain-based solutions,
cryptographic and signature-based methods, as well as graph-theoretical models [14].
    While effective, these approaches often show limitations in practice due to their
incompatibility with existing infrastructure and resource-constrained devices. In many
IIoT deployments, wide-area connectivity is provided by cellular networks, while
local connectivity relies on short-range technologies such as Wi-Fi or DECT-2020
NR [15]. In these non-public wireless networks, constrained IoT devices are often
responsible for critical functions including authentication, end-to-end security, or
session management using local credentials and ad-hoc trust schemes [16, 17].
    There is a need for architectures that allow IoT devices using non-cellular access
technologies to leverage standardized 5G security mechanisms, improving both
scalability and security in IIoT deployments. To address this gap, this thesis first
reviews how an IoT device can register with a private 5G Core (5GC) via non-3GPP
access. Correspondingly, we then aim to propose and implements a minimal IoT
User Equipment (UE) and gNB gateway stack in C, tailored for IoT/IIoT devices. The
proposed system need to enable IoT devices to register directly with commercial and
open-source 5G Cores, offloading authentication, session management, and traffic
control to the 5GC rather than performing these tasks on the device or gateway. Finally,
the thesis experimentally evaluates whether the implemented design can successfully
interoperate with standardized 5G procedures while reducing device-side complexity,
demonstrating a scalable and practical integration model for local-area deployments
such as industrial automation and private 5G networks.
    This thesis is structured as follows: Section 2 presents the background and
fundamentals, exploring the architecture and security challenges of IoT/IIoT, as well
as the authentication protocols of 5G core network. Section 2 also reviews literature
related to the thesis topic including intrusion detection systems, blockchain-enabled
IIoT/IoT cybersecurity, as well as how IoT is secured in 5G. Section 3 illustrates
the methodology, including the system design, choice of implementation, security
architecture, together with integration with commercial or open-source 5G Core
networks. Section 4 describes the implementation of the IoT UE and gNB gateway,
the deployment of 5G cores, and the hardware testbed used for evaluation. Section 4.3
presents the evaluation results under various scenarios, examining system performance,
registration, and authentication behavior. Finally, Section 5 concludes the thesis,
discusses the findings, while considering directions for future research, including
potential extensions toward 6G multi-access connectivity.


                                           8
2       Literature Review
This section introduces the key concepts and technologies that form the foundation
of this thesis. It begins with an overview of the IoT and its communication models,
followed by an examination of resource constraints, interoperability challenges,
and security threats inherent in IoT systems. Subsequently, the fundamentals of
fifth-generation (5G) mobile networks and their integration with IoT are presented,
emphasizing the architectural principles and their significance for the IIoT. The
discussion then turns to the security frameworks within 5G-enabled IoT, focusing on the
5G Authentication and Key Agreement (5G-AKA) and the Extensible Authentication
Protocol-based AKA’ (EAP-AKA’) mechanisms, as well as the security considerations
for non-3GPP access and private 5G core integration. Furthermore, advanced IoT
security solutions and state-of-the-art developments beyond 5G, such as intrusion
detection and blockchain-enabled IIoT, are explored. The section concludes with a
summary and discussion of the reviewed literature.

2.1     Internet of Things
The Internet of Things (IoT) continues to expand rapidly, and the 6G vision is to
support massive-scale deployments by enabling multi-connectivity across hetero-
geneous networks while meeting critical requirements for ultra-reliable low-latency
communications , high data rates, intelligent orchestration, and end-to-end security
[18]. This trend has accelerated the digital transformation of Industry 4.0, embedding
real-time sensing, control, and analytics into manufacturing systems, utilities, and
supply chains. This industrial shift has given rise to the IIoT, a specialized IoT paradigm
focused on mission-critical applications that demand high reliability, deterministic
latency, and secure large-scale integration of cyber-physical systems.

2.1.1    IoT architecture and communication models
The ITU-T reference model for the IoT, defined in Recommendation Y.4000/Y.2060
[19], outlines four key layers: the device layer, network layer, service and application
support layer, and application layer, as shown in Fig. 2. The device layer comprises
sensors, actuators, and gateways. Devices may connect directly to the network or
indirectly through gateways, which provide multi-interface support (e.g., ZigBee,
Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, LTE) and protocol conversion across heterogeneous technologies.
The network layer provides connectivity and transport functions, including access
control, mobility management, and authentication, authorization, and accounting
(AAA). It ensures reliable delivery of IoT data and control messages between devices
and higher layers. The service and application support layer offers middleware functions
such as data storage, aggregation, and device management, enabling interoperability
between the network and application layers. Finally, the application layer hosts
domain-specific IoT services—such as smart homes automation, industrial monitoring,
and healthcare services—translating data into actionable information for end users.
Together, these layers enable flexible communication models such as device-to-device

                                            9
          Figure 2: IoT reference model from ITU-T. Adapted from [19]

(D2D), device-to-gateway, and device-to-cloud, forming the foundation of modern
IoT systems [19].
    The model also specifies cross-layer management and security capability blocks.
Management functions include remote device management, topology, and congestion
management, while security management, such as authentication/authorization and
confidentiality/integrity, provides generic protections across device/network/appli-
cation layers. Additional application-specific capabilities are also considered when
required [19].
    Several key parameters influence the design of IoT architectures, including scal-
ability, energy efficiency, network addressing, and security. Research has focused
on [20]:
    • Scalability: Multi-hop routing protocols and hierarchical architectures enable
      IoT networks to cover larger areas and adapt dynamically to network growth.
    • Energy efficiency: Techniques such as energy harvesting, optimized MAC
      protocols, and cross-layer designs minimize power consumption in sensor nodes
      and network devices.
    • Addressing and interoperability: The integration of IPv6 with low-power
      networks (6LoWPAN) and the adoption of standardized protocols allow large-
      scale, heterogeneous IoT deployments.
    • Security and privacy: Cryptographic mechanisms, authentication protocols,
      and secure remote reprogramming (e.g., Deluge-based protocols) protect data
      integrity and prevent unauthorized access.

                                         10
    Consequently, hierarchical IoT architectures, such as the three-layer model com-
prising the Sensing and Control Layer (SCL), Information Processing Layer (IPL), and
Application Layer (AL), have been proposed to optimize energy usage and hardware
resource utilization [20]. In these architectures, sensor nodes (SNs) are managed by
gateway nodes (eGNs), which coordinate with base stations (eNodes) for communi-
cation and resource allocation. Data is processed and analyzed in the cloud or edge
resources, with results translated into human-readable formats and provided to end
users through visualization tools. Alternative architectures, including cloud-based
models, 3G-PLC integration, and self-configuring peer-to-peer networks, have also
been explored to address scalability, energy efficiency, and large-scale deployment
challenges. These designs collectively form the foundation for deploying Industrial
IoT systems in smart manufacturing, energy, and utility networks [20].
    The IIoT is a specialized subset of IoT that integrates intelligent devices and
solutions into industrial processes. By embedding real-time sensing, monitoring,
and control mechanisms into manufacturing, energy, and logistics, IIoT enhances
operational efficiency, reliability, and scalability. The IIoT envisions a fully digitized
factory floor in which sensors, actuators and control units continuously exchange data to
enable real-time monitoring, predictive maintenance and adaptive manufacturing [21,
22].
    In many industrial sectors—such as utilities, mining, and factory automation—real-
time automation has traditionally relied on wired communication networks, most
commonly based on real-time extensions of IEEE 802.3 Ethernet [23]. While
these extensions enable deterministic performance, they are often incompatible with
standard Ethernet, creating significant challenges for integration with enterprise IT
networks. Such convergence, however, is critical for realizing the Industry 4.0 vision
of fully integrated cyber-physical systems [21]. To address this gap, the IEEE 802.1
Time-Sensitive Networking (TSN) task group’s standards have emerged as an open
framework that supports the coexistence of deterministic traffic with best-effort traffic
over Ethernet [24]. TSN thus represents a significant step toward truly converged
industrial and enterprise networks.
    In parallel, several wireless technologies have been developed specifically for
industrial communication [21]:

    • ISA100.11a and WirelessHART: Both are IEEE 802.15.4-based standards
      designed for short-range mesh connectivity in process automation.

    • IO-Link Wireless: An extension of the IO-Link IEC 61131-9 standard, this
      Bluetooth-based solution enables wireless networking between sensors, actua-
      tors, and controllers in factory automation systems.

    • Industrial Wireless LAN: Offered by vendors such as Siemens, these so-
      lutions extend WLAN technology to industrial domains such as automotive
      manufacturing, transportation, and logistics.

    Together, these wired and wireless solutions highlight the evolution of indus-
trial networking from proprietary, domain-specific protocols toward standardized,

                                           11
interoperable platforms capable of supporting the stringent requirements of IIoT
applications.

2.1.2   Resource constraints and interoperability challenges
IoT systems are heterogeneous devices with limited resources, posing significant
challenges in communication, computation, and security. Most IoT nodes, such as
sensors and actuators, are constrained in energy, memory, and processing power,
making the direct adoption of conventional Internet security and communication
protocols infeasible [25, 26]. Another constraint lies in energy management . Many
IoT devices rely on small, non-rechargeable batteries, making power efficiency critical
for long-term deployments. Low-power communication protocols exist, yet frequent
battery replacement remains a barrier for large-scale IoT systems. Similarly, memory
limitations restrict the ability of nodes to store data or perform complex cryptographic
operations, limiting system scalability and resilience [26].
    Interoperability is another major challenge due to the diversity of network tech-
nologies, data formats, and communication protocols. Devices using different stan-
dards—such as ZigBee, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, or LTE—often require gateways for protocol
translation, introducing complexity and latency. The absence of a unified IoT architec-
ture further complicates cross-platform communication and service discovery [25,
27].

2.1.3   Security threats and vulnerabilities in IoT systems
Due to the dynamic and resource-limited nature of IoT systems, they are highly
susceptible to various security threats [22, 28, 29]. Resource constraints hinder
the deployment of traditional encryption and authentication methods, such as key
encryption and spread-spectrum techniques [22]. Common attacks—such as denial-
of-service (DoS), spoofing, jamming, man-in-the-middle, malware injection, and
buffer overflow—target different layers of the IoT architecture. Fig. 3 summarizes
typical attacks across these layers.
    At the physical layer, threats include device tampering and DoS attacks [22, 30].
Devices deployed in exposed environments are susceptible to physical modification or
firmware replacement, which can subsequently be used to compromise other nodes.
Spread-spectrum countermeasures are effective but often infeasible due to energy and
processing limitations.
    In the network layer, vulnerabilities stem from the heterogeneity and limited
trust mechanisms among devices due to the lack of resources [22, 31, 32]. Weak
nodes can be exploited to gain unauthorized trust, enabling indirect attacks such as
man-in-the-middle (MITM) intrusions, which compromise confidentiality and data
integrity through eavesdropping or message replay.
    At the application layer, security risks are similar to those found in conventional
software systems. Poor input validation, insecure APIs, and unpatched middleware can
allow attackers to inject malicious code, steal sensitive data, or bypass authentication
mechanisms [22, 33].


                                          12
        Figure 3: Attacks on layers of IoT architecture. Adapted from [29]


    Traditional security models based on the CIA triad (confidentiality, integrity,
availability) are often inadequate for IoT systems. Emerging concerns such as
trustworthiness and privacy have become equally critical, particularly in industrial IoT
(IIoT) applications where system compromise can lead to physical and operational
hazards [22].
    Overall, IoT security requires multi-layered defenses that consider both the unique
limitations of resource-constrained devices and the complex interdependencies between
layers.

2.2    5G-Enabled IoT Integration
Although projects such as 5G-CLARITY [34] showcase the potential of 5G-Advanced
private networks by integrating 5G NR, Wi-Fi, and (optionally) LiFi with enhanced
multiconnectivity, high-accuracy localization, and cross-wireless-access-technologies
(WATs) slicing through 3GPP non-3GPP interworking functions (e.g., N3IWF for
untrusted access and TNGF for trusted access), practical deployment remains limited
since most public 5G cores do not yet expose or support these capabilities. Never-
theless, while multi-connectivity is essential, its realization depends on robust and
unified authentication, which is currently absent as different WATs rely on distinct
authentication protocols, encryption methods, and security infrastructures, thereby
constraining device management and inter-WAT handovers. Furthermore, the het-
erogeneity of frequency bands and radio characteristics across WATs exacerbates the
difficulty of designing cohesive frameworks for authentication and mobility.
     In many deployments, while cellular standards are used for wide-area access, local
connectivity relies on short-range technologies such as Wi-Fi or Bluetooth [16]. In
these wireless local-area solutions, however, constrained IoT devices often remain
responsible for key functions such as device authentication, end-to-end security,


                                          13
session management, and traffic control [17]. These responsibilities can increase
overhead and complicate scaling when large numbers of nodes must be managed,
therefore, reducing the scalability and connectivity of the IIoT deployment. Unlike
public cellular networks, which benefit from the globally standardized and secure
5G Authentication and Key Agreement (5G-AKA) protocol, non-public networks
such as Wi-Fi and DECT-2020 NR typically depend on local credentials and ad-hoc
trust schemes. For example, Wi-Fi authentication often depends on SSID-passphrase
credentials, which are vulnerable to social engineering and rogue access point attacks,
whereas DECT-2020 NR devices, despite supporting hop-by-hop AES-128 encryption
and integrity protection at the MAC layer, currently lack a globally standardized
authentication framework, and private deployments may rely on ad-hoc trust schemes
that are less mature than 3GPP’s well-established 5G-AKA system.
    The fifth-generation core (5GC) natively supports secure device registration,
authentication, mobility management, and traffic control [35]. By shifting these tasks
from devices to the Core, resource-constrained IoT platforms can benefit from carrier-
grade security and efficient traffic handling. Next section explore the fundamentals of
5GC.

2.2.1   5G architecture overview and key feature
In addition to traditional IoT architectures, alternative architectural models have been
proposed to support large-scale integration with emerging wireless technologies such
as 5G. One such design is the five-layer IoT architecture within a 5G framework
[36], which enhances scalability, flexibility, and end-to-end connectivity from sensing
devices to cloud services. As illustrated in Fig. 4, this model introduces dedicated
layers for communication and network management, enabling seamless interaction
between heterogeneous IoT devices through low-power wide-area networks (LPWANs)
such as Sigfox, LoRa, ZigBee, and NB-IoT. Data is aggregated at IoT gateways and
forwarded over 5G New Radio (NR) links to the core network for processing and
application delivery across domains such as smart industry, transportation, and energy
systems.
    This layered approach complements hierarchical IoT models by providing na-
tive support for high-throughput, low-latency communication and massive device
connectivity—characteristics essential for future IIoT deployment over 5G networks.
5G-and-beyond networks are positioned to be the unifying fabric for this vision:
the 5G Core incorporates Time-Sensitive Networking to guarantee deterministic
traffic, and Multi-Access Edge Computing to bring low-latency processing to the
plant floor [21]. The architecture supports all three 5G service categories—enhanced
mobile broadband (eMBB), massive machine-type communications (mMTC) and
ultra-reliable low-latency communications (URLLC)—thus allowing a single radio
interface to satisfy the diverse, heterogeneous demands of industrial applications, from
high-throughput video analytics and AR/VR to mission-critical robotic control [21].
Moreover, 5G’s flexible deployment options (private, public and hybrid) and spectrum
sharing (licensed and unlicensed) provide plant owners with the ability to design
dedicated, end-to-end secure networks that can be isolated from carrier infrastructure

                                          14
Figure 4: Five-layer IoT architecture integrated within a 5G wireless system adapted
from [36].

while still benefiting from carrier-grade services [21].
    The advent of 5G and beyond (B5G) networks further accelerates the potential
of IIoT by supporting ultra-low latency- with target of 10ms for control plane and
0.5ms for data plane uplink and downlink [37]-, high data throughput, and secure
large-scale deployments[21]. While IoT and IIoT present opportunities, they also raise
significant security concerns. Challenges include device authentication, data integrity,
data privacy preservation, and resistance against DoS and man-in-the-middle attacks.

2.2.2   5G system reference mode
5G mobile networks mark a significant evolution in wireless communication, engi-
neered to support eMBB, URLLC, and mMTC [35]. To meet these diverse service
requirements, 5G adopts a service-based architecture (SBA) within the 5G Core
(5GC), enabling modular network functions, flexible deployment, and efficient service
orchestration. Control plane network functions communicate exclusively through
standardized service-based interfaces. The 5GC also provides native support for
secure device registration, mutual authentication, mobility management, and traffic
handling, delivering carrier-grade reliability and security essential for both consumer
and industrial applications.
    The non-roaming 5GC network architecture is illustrated in Fig. 5. It shows the
NFs essential for non-roaming services and includes the following key components:
    • Mobility Management Function (AMF) is responsible for UE registration, con-

                                          15
  Figure 5: Non-roaming reference 5G Architecture. Adapted from [35]


  nection management, access control, and mobility management. Furthermore,
  it integrates the Network Slice Selection Function (NSSF), which determines
  the appropriate network slice for a given service or subscriber.

• Session Management Function (SMF) handles the establishment, modification,
  and release of PDU sessions in accordance with network policies. It also ensures
  session continuity and enforces Quality of Service (QoS) requirements, thereby
  enabling differentiated service delivery.

• User Plane Function (UPF) serves as the anchor point for user-plane traffic.
  Its deployment can be tailored to the service type, supporting edge computing
  scenarios or centralized configurations. Functionally, the UPF represents the
  evolution of the Serving Gateway (SGW) and Packet Data Network Gateway
  (PGW) in 4G networks.

• Policy Control Function (PCF) provides a comprehensive policy framework that
  governs network slicing, roaming, and mobility management. It is conceptually
  similar to the Policy and Charging Rules Function (PCRF) in LTE, but with
  enhanced capabilities for dynamic and slice-aware policy enforcement.

• Unified Data Management (UDM) is the central repository for subscription
  information and user profiles. It extends the role of the Home Subscriber
  Server (HSS) in LTE to cover both fixed and mobile access, ensuring consistent
  subscriber data management across heterogeneous access technologies.

• Network Repository Function (NRF) introduces a novel service registration
  and discovery mechanism. It allows network functions to dynamically register
  their capabilities and discover other NFs through APIs, thereby enabling flexible
  and adaptive service composition.



                                      16
    • Network Exposure Function (NEF) acts as an API gateway, exposing selected
      network services and capabilities to external entities, such as enterprises and
      partner operators. This facilitates third-party integration for functions like
      service provisioning, monitoring, and policy control.
    • Authentication Server Function (AUSF) provides authentication services
      for UEs, ensuring secure access to the network. Its specification and security
      procedures are defined by 3GPP SA Working Group 3 (SA WG3). The AMF
      and SMF interface with user-plane nodes through N1, N2, and N4, supporting
      subscriber attachment, session establishment, and mobility management. The
      N2 and N3 interfaces, in particular, depend on how the 5G radio access network
      (RAN) is realized, making them tightly coupled with the underlying RAN
      architecture.
Together, these functions form the core of the 5G service-based architecture. Addi-
tional functional entities exist to support charging, exposure, analytics, and network
management but are outside the focus of this discussion.

2.3     Security Frameworks in 5G for IoT
This section briefly introduces the 5G security architecture, summarizes the two main
authentication methods (5G-AKA and EAP-AKA′), and then discusses security for
non-3GPP access and its integration with private 5G cores.

2.3.1   5G security architecture
Security is a cornerstone of 5G, particularly given its role in supporting mission-critical
IIoT applications. Fig. 6 illustrates the overview of 3GPP 5G security architecture.
The architecture is organized into six security domains, each addressing a specific
aspect of end-to-end protection across the system [38]:
    • Network access security (I): Ensures secure mutual authentication and protec-
      tion of user traffic over both 3GPP and non-3GPP access networks, safeguarding
      the radio interface against radio interface threats, such as eavesdropping or
      jamming.
    • Network domain security (II): Protects signaling and user plane communication
      between network entities through secure inter-node communication.
    • User domain security (III): Secures user access to mobile equipment, preventing
      unauthorized device usage.
    • Application domain security (IV): Enables secure communication between
      applications in user and provider domains (outside the scope of [38]).
    • SBA domain security (V): Introduced in 5G to protect service-based architecture
      (SBA) communication, including network function discovery, authorization,
      and service interface security.

                                            17
    • Visibility and configurability of security (VI): Provides users with transparency
      and control over active security features.

In the 5G security architecture, primary authentication as part of network access security
is performed using the 5G-AKA protocol , which provides mutual authentication
between the UE and the network. In parallel, the Extensible Authentication Protocol-
based AKA’ (EAP-AKA’) method has been introduced to provide additional flexibility,
particularly in non-3GPP access scenarios. Both protocols aim to ensure confidentiality,
integrity, and resistance to common security threats, while meeting the performance
requirements of next-generation networks.




         Figure 6: 5G Security Architecture Overview. Adapted from [38]


2.3.2   EAP-AKA’ and 5G-AKA
The Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) [39] is a generic authentication frame-
work designed to support multiple authentication mechanisms over a common message
exchange structure. Rather than prescribing a specific authentication algorithm, EAP
defines a standardized request/response format that can encapsulate a wide range
of authentication methods, known as EAP methods. EAP operates between three
logical entities: the supplicant (end device), the authenticator (e.g., access point or
gateway), and the authentication server (e.g., AAA server or 5G core network). The
authenticator acts as a pass-through relay, forwarding EAP messages between the
supplicant and server without interpreting the method-specific content.
    An EAP exchange follows a simple message pattern:

   1. EAP-Request/Identity - The authenticator requests the identity of the supplicant.

   2. EAP-Response/Identity - The supplicant replies with a claimed identity.

   3. Method-Specific EAP Messages - Based on the chosen EAP method, authenti-
      cation proceeds using challenge-response and key derivation steps.



                                           18
    EAP is widely deployed in IEEE 802.1X-based access control for wired and
wireless networks, including Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11), Ethernet edge networks, VPN
systems, and cellular interworking architectures. In cellular environments, EAP is
used as an alternative to native 3GPP authentication procedures and plays a central role
in 5G security, especially for non-3GPP access integration such as Wi-Fi or Ethernet
offloading into the 5GC.
    Common EAP methods include certificate-based authentication (EAP-TLS),
symmetric-key SIM-based authentication (EAP-SIM, EAP-AKA), and public-key
optimization schemes (EAP-TLS-POK).
    EAP-TLS-POK [40] is a lightweight public-key authentication protocol built on
Transport Layer Security (TLS), specifically designed for constrained devices such
as IoT/IIoT hardware. Unlike classical EAP-TLS, which relies on X.509 certificates
and a full public key infrastructure (PKI), EAP-TLS-POK replaces certificates with a
proof-of-possession mechanism. The UE demonstrates ownership of a pre-provisioned
asymmetric key pair using a Proof of Knowledge (POK) token derived from its private
key. This design avoids certificate management overhead while retaining strong
cryptographic assurance, making it suitable for secure onboarding of IoT devices
without SIM credentials.
    EAP-AKA [41] integrates the Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA) protocol
used in 3G and 4G systems into the EAP framework. It enables SIM/USIM-based
authentication over access networks such as Wi-Fi that may not natively support 3GPP
signaling. The supplicant uses a long-term secret key 𝐾 stored in its USIM and a
shared subscriber profile stored in the Home Subscriber Server (HSS) or UDM entity
to compute authentication vectors. EAP-AKA provides mutual authentication between
UE and network, derivation of ciphering and integrity keys, and protection against
replay and man-in-the-middle attacks.
    However, EAP-AKA inherits some limitations from earlier 3G specifications, such
as dependence on SHA-1-based key derivation functions and limited binding between
authentication keys and access networks, which may impact security when roaming
or interworking across domains. These limitations were addressed by its successor,
EAP-AKA’.
    EAP-AKA’ [42] is the upgraded version of EAP-AKA and is one of the two
primary authentication methods defined in the 5G system architecture, alongside 5G
AKA [38]. It is the recommended method for non-3GPP access authentication in 5G,
such as 5G-Wi-Fi interworking via N3IWF.
    EAP-AKA’ introduces several key enhancements over EAP-AKA [42]:

    • Network-Bound Key Derivation: Session keys are derived using a 3GPP-
      defined key derivation function (KDF) based on HMAC-SHA-256 that binds
      keys to the serving network name (SN-name). This prevents key reuse across
      networks and improves roaming security.

    • Modern Cryptographic Primitives: Legacy SHA-1 functions are replaced by
      HMAC-SHA-256, improving resistance to cryptographic collision and preimage
      attacks.


                                          19
• Full 5G Integration: EAP-AKA’ aligns with the 5G security architecture
  defined in 3GPP TS 33.501, including NAS key derivation (𝐾NAS   5𝐺 ), anchor

  key generation (𝐾SEAF ), and key hierarchy support for access and user-plane
  security.

• Backward Compatibility: If the serving network does not support the newer
  KDF, the UE falls back to EAP-AKA behavior without interrupting connectivity.

The 5G authentication process using EAP-AKA’ proceeds as follows:

1. UE and network exchange EAP-Request/Identity and EAP-Response/Identity
   messages.

2. The network issues an EAP-Request/EAP-AKA’ challenge.

3. The UE verifies network authenticity and computes the RES∗ response.
                                               5𝐺 .
4. Both parties derive 𝐾SEAF and subsequently 𝐾NAS

5. Authentication concludes with EAP-Success and establishment of a secure NAS
   context.




  Figure 7: Authentication procedure for EAP-AKA’. Adapted from [38]


                                    20
    Figure 7 illustrates the authentication procedure. The process begins when
the UDM or authentication Credential Repository and Processing Function (ARPF)
generates an authentication vector (AV) with the AMF separation bit set, and transforms
the ciphering and integrity keys (CK, IK) into CK’ and IK’. This transformed AV is
delivered to the AUSF, which initiates the EAP-AKA’ exchange with the UE through
the SEAF.
    The SEAF transparently forwards the EAP-Request/AKA’-Challenge to the UE,
which passes the random challenge (RAND) and authentication token (AUTN) to the
USIM. The USIM verifies the freshness of the AUTN and, if successful, computes the
response (RES) along with derived keys. The UE replies with an EAP-Response/AKA’-
Challenge, which is validated by the AUSF. If verification fails, the authentication is
aborted. Upon successful verification, both the AUSF and the UE derive the Extended
Master Session Key (EMSK), from which the key 𝐾AUSF is extracted. Subsequently,
the serving anchor key 𝐾SEAF is derived and provided to the SEAF. Using 𝐾SEAF ,
the Subscription Permanent Identifier (SUPI), and the ABBA parameter, the SEAF
computes the anchor key 𝐾AMF and provides it to the AMF to establish the security
context. The procedure concludes with the AUSF sending an EAP-Success message
to the UE, finalizing the mutual authentication and establishing the derived keys for
subsequent secure communication.
    Because of its strong key binding, roaming support, and seamless interoperability
with SIM-based identity management, EAP-AKA’ is the de facto authentication
framework for secure 5G IoT and enterprise deployments using non-3GPP access.
    5G-AKA is the primary authentication and key-agreement protocol of 5G, built
upon the 5G security architecture [38], is defined in the 3GPP Technical Specification
Series TS 33.501 [38] and TS 33.220 [43]. 5G-AKA is an evolution of the 4G LTE
AKA, enriched with subscription status checks, session context establishment, and
enhanced key derivation that provides forward secrecy. The procedure of 5G-AKA is
illustrated in Figure 8.
    The 5G-AKA protocol ensures mutual authentication between the UE and the
network while establishing cryptographic session keys. Authentication is achieved
through a challenge–response exchange involving the UE, the serving network, and
the home network, resulting in shared keys (𝐾SEAF , 𝐾AMF ) that secure NAS signaling.
The formal security of 5G-AKA has been extensively analyzed and proven in 3GPP
specifications [38, 44] and study [45].
    The protocol provides three main guarantees: (1) Mutual authentication between
the UE and network; (2) Key confidentiality and integrity for all subsequent control-
plane communications; and (3) Replay and downgrade protection through freshness
verification and the ABBA parameter.
    Despite the extensive standardization effort, the intrinsic complexity of 5G-
AKA—multiple nonces, timestamps, and inter-function messaging across the AMF,
SMF, and UDM—renders it vulnerable to subtle design flaws that can be hard to
uncover through conventional testing. Consequently, formal verification has become
an indispensable tool for establishing the security properties of the protocol. In
this context, [45] presents a comprehensive analysis of the 5G-AKA protocol using
the ProVerif tool, a state-of-the-art symbolic verifier for cryptographic protocols.

                                          21
       Figure 8: Authentication procedure for 5G-AKA. Adapted from [38]


The authors model the protocol in the applied 𝜋-calculus, encode the 3GPP-defined
messages and key-derivation functions, and systematically verify critical properties
such as mutual authentication, key freshness, and resistance to replay, man-in-the-
middle, and identity leakage attacks. The verification results reported in [45] confirm
that the nominal implementation of 5G-AKA satisfies the intended security goals
under the Dolev-Yao adversary model.

2.3.3 Non-3GPP access security and integration with private 5G cores
The previous section described the non-roaming 5GC architecture, where UE connects
to the 5G system using standardized access technology such as 5G New Radio (5G NR)
through the RAN. To expand coverage, offload traffic, improve indoor connectivity,
and support new services, the 5G system also supports non-3GPP access, such as
WLAN networks [35]. This is especially important for IoT deployments, where many
devices rely on non-cellular communication technologies. A 2024 report [46] shows
that Wi-Fi accounts for 31% of all IoT connections, while cellular IoT technologies
(2G, 3G, 4G, 5G, LTE-M, and NB-IoT) represent about 21% of global IoT connections.
    The 5GC supports connectivity for both trusted and untrusted non-3GPP access
networks. Untrusted networks connect via the Non-3GPP InterWorking Function
(N3IWF), while trusted networks use the Trusted Non-3GPP Gateway Function
(TNGF). These gateway functions interface with the 5GC control plane and user plane

                                          22
through the standardized N2 and N3 interfaces, enabling secure session management
and traffic routing. Non-3GPP access networks can advertise the public land mobile
networks (PLMNs) or standalone non-public networks (SNPNs) for which they provide
trusted connectivity, allowing UEs to discover and attach to networks that meet their
connectivity and security requirements [35].
    Figures 9 and 10 depict the service-based architecture of 5G Core networks for
untrusted and trusted non-3GPP access, respectively. The primary difference between
trusted and untrusted access lies in the location of the access point to which the UE
connects. If the access point resides within the Home Public Land Mobile Network
(HPLMN), that is, inside the 5G Core network, the access is considered trusted;
otherwise, it is classified as untrusted.




Figure 9: Non-roaming architecture for 5G Core Network with untrusted non-3GPP
access. Adapted from [35]




Figure 10: Non-roaming architecture for 5G Core Network with trusted non-3GPP
access. Adapted from [35]

    To implement the UE and gNB gateway stack for authentication and registration, it
is essential to understand the network protocol stack used in the control plane. The

                                         23
protocol stack is organized in layers, where each upper layer relies on and is protected
by the lower ones. Higher layers handle signaling and session logic, while lower layers
ensure reliable transport, framing, and physical transmission over the air interface.




Figure 11: Control Plane protocol stack between the UE and the AMF. Adapted
from [35]

   Fig. 11 shows the protocol used between the UE and the AMF via the 5G access
network (5G-AN). The stack includes the Non-Access Stratum Mobility Management
(NAS-MM) for registration, authentication, and mobility control, the Next Generation
Application Protocol (NG-AP) for signaling between the AMF and gNB, and the Stream
Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP) for reliable transport of control messages.
Beneath these layers, the Internet Protocol (IP) and the lower Layer 1 and Layer 2 (L1
and L2) provide end-to-end connectivity, and the access network protocol layer used
between the UE and 5G-AN interface.




Figure 12: Control Plane protocol stack before the signalling IPsec SA is established
between UE and N3IWF. Adapted from [35]

    Fig. 12 illustrates the control plane protocol stack used in untrusted non-3GPP
access, specifically between the UE and the N3IWF. Initial access occurs before the
IPSec Security Association (SA) is established, so NAS messages are transferred
using the EAP-5G or IKEv2 procedures over the underlying access network. After the
IPSec SA is established, the UE creates a TCP/IP tunnel with the N3IWF to transport

                                          24
Figure 13: Control Plane after the signalling IPsec SA is established between UE
and N3IWF. Adapted from [35]


NAS and PDU session management messages securely as illustrated in fig. 13. On the
core network side, the AMF communicates with the N3IWF using the same SCTP
and NGAP stack via the N2 interface. NAS messages between the AMF and UE are
encapsulated over this secure tunnel through the N1 interface, ensuring registration,
authentication, and mobility procedures are reliably delivered over untrusted access
networks.




Figure 14: Control Plane protocol stack before the NWt connection is established
between UE and TNGF . Adapted from [35]




Figure 15: Control Plane after the NWt connection is established between UE and
TNGF. Adapted from [35]


                                         25
    For trusted non-3GPP access, Fig. 14 shows the control plane protocol stack
between the UE and TNGF. Before the NWt connection is established, NAS messages
are encapsulated using the vendor-specific EAP-5G procedure, with the link layer
supporting EAP transport and the AAA interface used between TNAP and TNGF.
Once the NWt connection is active, a TCP/IP tunnel is established between the UE
and TNGF, and NAS and session management messages are exchanged over IPSec as
shown in fig. 15. The AMF communicates with TNGF using SCTP and NGAP via
the N2 interface, while NAS messages are delivered to the UE over the N1 interface.
This configuration aligns trusted non-3GPP access with the control plane procedures
of untrusted access, while providing a secure channel for registration and session
management.

2.4    NAS and NGAP Message Procedure in 5G-AKA
Fig. 16 illustrates the exchange of NGAP messages and the encapsulated NAS packets
during the authentication and registration procedure. A detailed version of the diagram
can be found in Appendix D.




Figure 16: Sequence diagram of NGAP signaling between the gNB and AMF,
showing encapsulation of NAS messages.




                                          26
2.4.1     NAS Message Structure
The structure of the NAS message is standardized by 3GPP [47]. Table 2 shows an
example of how a NAS packet is defined in the specification. The field IEI represents
the Information Element Identifier, used to indicate optional Information Elements
(IEs) present in the message. The Information Element column specifies the name
or purpose of each field. The Type/Reference column provides either the type of
the IE or a cross-reference to its detailed definition in the standard. The Presence
column indicates whether the field is mandatory (M) or optional (O). The Format
column specifies how the IE is encoded (e.g., fixed value (V), length-value (LV),
type-length-value (TLV)). Finally, the Length column describes the size of the field in
octets or the allowed range.

Table 2: AUTHENTICATION REQUEST message content (adapted from 3GPP TS
24.501, Table 8.2.2.1.1)

IEI Information Ele-        Type/Reference           Presence Format         Length
    ment
        Extended protocol   Extended protocol dis-   M           V           1
        discriminator       criminator
        Security header     Security header type     M           V           1/2
        type
        Spare half octet    Spare half octet         M           V           1/2
        Authentication      Message type             M           V           1
        request message
        identity
        ngKSI               NAS key set identifier M             V           1/2
        Spare half octet    Spare half octet       M             V           1/2
        ABBA                ABBA                   M             LV          3–n
21      Authentication      Authentication parame- O             TV          17
        parameter RAND      ter RAND (5G authen-
                            tication challenge)
20      Authentication      Authentication parame- O             TLV         18
        parameter AUTN      ter AUTN (5G authenti-
                            cation challenge)
78      EAP message         EAP message            O             TLV-E       7–1503

    In general, NAS messages follow a common structure. At the start, the Extended
Protocol Discriminator identifies the protocol family (e.g., 5G mobility management
or session management) so that the message can be correctly interpreted. The Security
Header Type specifies whether the message is plain, integrity protected, or both
encrypted and integrity protected. For secured messages, the plain NAS payload is
placed after the Message Authentication Code (MAC) and sequence number fields.
The Type field uniquely identifies the purpose of the plain message (for example,
Authentication Request or Registration Accept). Some messages also contain a Spare

                                           27
Half Octet, which is reserved padding space that ensures byte alignment of subsequent
fields.
    This standardized structure ensures interoperability between different implemen-
tations of UEs, gNBs, and 5G Core components by defining an unambiguous format
for control-plane signaling messages such as the Authentication Request.

2.4.2   NAS Message Exchange
The function of the IoT-UE stack includes constructing outbound NAS packets as
well as parsing and processing received NAS messages from the core (i.e., AMF).
Fig. 17 shows an exchange of 5GS mobility management messages implemented in
the stack. Since NAS messages may contain different optional Information Elements
(oIEs) depending on the signaling context, the IoT-UE stack ensures that all necessary
oIEs are correctly included in transmitted messages, while also parsing and handling
optional IEs received from the Core during registration and authentication.
    Table 3 summarizes the Information Elements (IEs) involved in the procedure,
outlining their purpose, function, and role.

 Table 3: Summary of NAS messages during 5G Registration and Authentication

    NAS Message          Key IEs                     Purpose
    Registration Re-     ngKSI, 5GS Mobile           Identify security context; UE
    quest                Identity                    subscription verification
    Authentication       RAND, AUTN, ABBA            Random challenge and net-
    Request                                          work authentication
    Authentication       RES*                        UE response to challenge
    Response
    Security Mode        Selected NAS algo-          Negotiate integrity/ciphering
    Command/Com-         rithms, UE security ca-     parameters
    plete                pability
    Registration Ac-     5G-GUTI, Allowed NS-        Confirm registration and as-
    cept/Complete        SAI/DNN                     sign identifiers

   A detailed breakdown of all IEs in the Registration and Authentication NAS
messages is provided in Appendix B.

2.4.3   NGAP Message Structure
NGAP (Next Generation Application Protocol) is the control-plane signaling protocol
exchanged over SCTP between the AMF and the gNB. In contrast to NAS, NGAP
is specified using Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1). ASN.1 provides a formal
description of data structures, their types, and how they relate to one another. Messages
defined in ASN.1 are transmitted in a binary format using Packed Encoding Rules
(PER) and can be unambiguously decoded by the receiver.
    For example, the element UserLocationInformation is defined as a CHOICE,
meaning that only one of the listed alternatives can be present in a given message.

                                           28
Figure 17: Sequence diagram of the authentication and registration procedure NAS
flow between IoT-UE and AMF.


U s e r L o c a t i o n I n f o r m a t i o n : : = CHOICE {
     userLocationInformationEUTRA                          UserLocationInformationEUTRA ,
     userLocationInformationNR                             UserLocationInformationNR ,
     userLocationInformationN3IWF                          UserLocationInformationN3IWF ,
     c h o i c e −E x t e n s i o n s                      P r o t o c o l I E −S i n g l e C o n t a i n e r
}
   A second example is the generic definition of an Information Element (IE), which
uses the SEQUENCE keyword. A SEQUENCE groups several fields together, each with a
name, type, and constraints.
P r o t o c o l I E −F i e l d : : = SEQUENCE {
      id                     P r o t o c o l I E −ID ,
      criticality Criticality ,
      value                  P r o t o c o l I E −S i n g l e C o n t a i n e r
}
    By using ASN.1 definitions, the structure of each NGAP message can be clearly
understood and its elements accurately serialized for transmission. Figure 18 illustrates
how an NGAP message is represented in tabular form within the 3GPP specification.
In addition to the IE or group name, the tables include supporting fields that ensure
correct message interpretation and reliable network operation. The Presence, Range,
IE type and reference, Semantics description, and Criticality columns collectively
define how each IE is processed and how errors or unknown elements are handled by
the receiver.



                                                    29
Figure 18: Example of the NGAP message UPLINK NAS TRANSPORT as stan-
dardized in 3GPP specifications.


2.5    IoT Security Enhancements Beyond 5G
Conventional IoT security mechanisms alone are insufficient to meet the unique
requirements of IIoT, such as low-latency communication, lightweight cryptography,
and scalability in distributed environments. To address these challenges, recent
research has focused on domain-specific security mechanisms, including Intrusion
Detection Systems, blockchain-enabled IIoT, as well as mechanisms to enhance the
cybersecurity and resilience of 5G- and beyond-enabled IoT systems.
    IDS techniques monitor network traffic and detect anomalies or malicious behaviors
using statistical, signature-based, or increasingly, machine learning methods to enhance
detection accuracy and adaptability in dynamic environments [4]. Recent studies have
demonstrated effective IDS designs using ensemble learning and optimization-based
methods to improve precision and scalability in IIoT contexts [7–9]. Meanwhile,
blockchain has gained attention as a decentralized and tamper-resistant framework
for ensuring trust, integrity, and secure data management in industrial systems [10].
Various implementations have applied blockchain for secure threat auditing, edge-
assisted data protection, and lightweight consensus for mobile or resource-constrained
devices [11–13]. Although these approaches show strong potential to complement
5G-based IoT security, they also introduce challenges such as computational overhead,
latency, and limited compatibility with existing 5G core authentication and management
protocols [48].
    There have been a significant number of studies proposing mechanisms to enhance
the cybersecurity and resilience of 5G- and beyond-enabled IoT systems. A recent
systematic literature review surveyed 79 research articles in this area [14], highlighting
several dominant categories of security mechanisms. Specifically, twelve studies
investigated blockchain-based authentication and trust frameworks for 5G-enabled
IoT. For example, Aljumah et al. proposed a Blockchain-Based AKA protocol for
5G networks [49], which improves mutual authentication while mitigating replay
and man-in-the-middle attacks using distributed trust. In addition, twenty works

                                           30
focused on applied cryptography and lightweight security primitives. These schemes
employ digital signatures, hash-chain authentication, or post-quantum cryptographic
key exchanges to secure massive IoT connectivity under strict latency and energy
constraints. Finally, two studies adopted graph-theoretical approaches to model and
assess the resilience of 5G-enabled IoT infrastructures, particularly for smart home
dependency modeling and connectivity impact analysis.
    Beyond software-based security mechanisms, hardware-assisted security has gained
attention due to its low latency and resistance to tampering. Papadopoulos et al. [50]
presented an FPGA-based implementation of the 5G EAP-AKA’ authentication proto-
col, demonstrating that hardware acceleration can significantly improve authentication
efficiency and secure key derivation in 5G systems.


3     System Design and Methodology
3.1    Design Objectives
While the solutions discussed in 2.5 demonstrate strong theoretical effectiveness in
addressing security and resilience challenges, their real-world adoption remains limited.
Many blockchain-based mechanisms demand substantial computational and storage
resources, which are impractical for constrained IoT and IIoT devices. Similarly, post-
quantum and advanced cryptographic schemes, though robust against sophisticated
attacks, introduce considerable latency and processing overhead, hindering deployment
in lightweight embedded systems. Graph-theoretical models, in turn, provide analytical
insights but often lack direct applicability as operational security mechanisms.
     To bridge this gap between theoretical security frameworks and deployable 5G
IoT architectures, this work aims to design and implement a minimal yet functional
UE–gNB system architecture that demonstrates secure, standard-compliant integration
with a commercial 5G Core. The system focuses on offloading most control and
security operations to the Core while minimizing device-side complexity. Because of
this aim, and based on the limitations identified in the background review in Section 2.5,
we specify the following design objectives for the proposed system architecture before
detailing the implementation.
     Objective 1: Lightweight and Modular Architecture. The system must maintain
a minimal software footprint to ensure compatibility with low-power and embedded
platforms (e.g., Raspberry Pi, Nordic nRF91xx). To achieve this, the UE and gNB
gateway are designed as modular components implementing only the essential control-
plane functions—registration, authentication, and session setup— while relying on
the Core for heavy network management tasks.
     Objective 2: Core-Dependent Security Offloading. Given the limited resources
of IoT hardware, authentication, encryption, and session key derivation are delegated
to the 5G Core’s standardized security procedures (5G-AKA and NAS security). This
offloading approach reduces computational overhead on devices while preserving
compliance with 3GPP security specifications.
     Objective 3: Standard Compliance and Interoperability. The system must


                                           31
adhere strictly to 3GPP-defined interfaces and message formats for NAS and NGAP
signaling. This ensures interoperability with commercial Core Network implemen-
tations (e.g., Cumucore 5G Core) and facilitates future integration into industrial
deployments.
    Objective 4: Resource-Aware Operation. The architecture should be deployable
on both general-purpose and embedded systems, allowing comparative evaluation
under constrained computational and memory conditions. This dual-platform testing
validates the design’s scalability and efficiency.
    Objective 5: Transparent IoT-to-5G Integration. The solution should demon-
strate that existing IoT nodes can register, authenticate, and exchange data through
a minimal gNB gateway directly with a 5G Core over standard interfaces, without
requiring proprietary middleware or protocol translation.
    Objective 6: Experimental Validation and Observability. The system must
enable traceable and reproducible testing. Packet captures and message traces (e.g.,
NAS and NGAP logs) are used to verify successful authentication, registration, and
security context establishment between the IoT-UE and the Core.
    In summary, these objectives collectively guide the design of a deployable and
cost-effective 5G-enabled IoT framework that demonstrates secure, standards-based
connectivity for resource-limited devices in LAN-scale industrial environments. This
section establishes the foundation upon which the subsequent implementation and
evaluation are built.
    In the prototype implementation, both the IoT-UE and the gNB gateway are
hosted on Raspberry Pi platforms. The device reflects representative non-cellular,
non-3GPP IoT and edge devices that are widely used in IoT prototyping. They provide
generic IP connectivity toward the 5GC and offer a programmable environment for
C-based development. At the same time, the software components are designed to
be portable to more constrained platforms such as Nordic nRF91xx-based boards for
future deployments.

3.2    System Architecture Overview
Figure 19 illustrates the system architecture. The system is composed of three main
components: (i) the IoT-UE, representing a resource-constrained device (e.g., Nordic
nRF91xx), (ii) the gNB gateway, implemented in C as a lightweight interface between
the UE and 5GC, and (iii) the 5G Core, comprising the AMF, AUSF, and SMF
services.
    The gNB gateway establishes an SCTP association with the AMF to exchange
NGAP signaling messages. The UE communicates with the gNB gateway through
a simple socket interface, which forwards encapsulated NAS messages to the 5G
Core. Control-plane security is provided through NAS integrity and ciphering once
authentication succeeds. This modular separation allows IoT devices to leverage the
Core’s native authentication and mobility management functions without implementing
the full 5G radio and RRC stack.
    The proposed architecture is designed with a focus on modularity, interoperability,
and deployability within constrained environments. The system is divided into three

                                          32
                        Figure 19: System Architecture


logical tiers—the IoT-UE, the gNB gateway, and the 5G Core—to balance performance,
standard compliance, and implementation simplicity.

   • Modularity and Isolation: Separating the IoT-UE from the 5G Core through a
     lightweight gNB gateway maintains clear boundaries between device logic and
     network signaling. This modular separation simplifies debugging, testing, and
     protocol tracing, while allowing each component to evolve independently.

   • Protocol Transparency: The gNB gateway serves as a transparent relay for
     NAS-over-NGAP signaling, ensuring full compliance with 3GPP specifications
     without requiring proprietary interfaces or modifications to the 5G Core. This
     guarantees interoperability with standard Core implementations such as OAI
     and Open5GS.

   • Hardware Efficiency: Deploying the UE and gateway on platforms such as
     the Raspberry Pi and Nordic nRF91xx enables evaluation across a range of
     hardware capabilities—from general-purpose edge devices to more constrained
     embedded systems. This separation ensures that the gNB gateway handles


                                       33
        signaling and processing tasks, avoiding unnecessary computational load on
        lightweight IoT endpoints.

    • Scalability and Maintainability: The modular gateway structure supports easy
      extension to multiple UEs by maintaining separate IMSI contexts. This design
      avoids the complexity of monolithic architectures, which are harder to scale,
      maintain, and port across heterogeneous hardware.

    • Security and Reliability: By leveraging the 5G Core’s built-in authentication
      and key management procedures, the system minimizes device-side security
      complexity while ensuring end-to-end protection. Designs that replicate authen-
      tication at the edge increase the attack surface and introduce synchronization
      challenges.

   Overall, the selected architecture provides an optimal balance between minimalism
and standard compliance, enabling secure, scalable, and practical integration of
constrained IoT devices with 5G Core networks.

3.2.1    IoT User Equipment (UE)
The IoT UE represents a constrained or embedded device capable of initiating
registration and authentication procedures toward the 5GC. At the logical level,
the UE maintains a lightweight credential store—referred to as a software SIM
(SoftSIM)—which holds essential identifiers such as the Mobile Country Code (MCC),
Mobile Network Code (MNC), and Subscription Permanent Identifier (SUPI). The
store also includes authentication material such as the long-term key 𝐾 and operator
variant configuration 𝑂𝑃𝑐 required for the 5G-AKA algorithm. These credentials
enable the UE to participate in the standard authentication and key agreement process
as defined in 2.4. In real-world deployments, hardware-based SIM or eSIM modules,
such as those supported by Nordic’s nRF91xx series, would securely store these
credentials and generate the Subscription Concealed Identifier (SUCI) using public
key encryption. The UE thus acts as the endpoint of trust within the system, initiating
5G signaling while remaining agnostic to the transport layer beneath.

3.2.2    gNB Gateway
The gNB gateway functions as a lightweight intermediary that bridges the IoT UE
with the 5G Core. It relays NAS signaling messages transparently between the UE
and the AMF while preserving UE-specific identifiers such as the RAN_UE_NGAP_ID
and AMF_UE_NGAP_ID. This component does not perform full RAN operations but
provides sufficient logic to emulate a minimal gNB control-plane stack, facilitating
authentication and registration through standard NAS/NGAP procedures.
   The gateway is designed to operate within the trusted part of the 5G Core network,
enabling direct AMF interaction without requiring the non-3GPP N3IWF interface,
whose implementations are often incomplete or inconsistent. This simplifies deploy-
ment and ensures broad compatibility across 5GC vendors, including OpenAirInterface

                                          34
(OAI) and Cumucore, and supports experimentation within private edge and industrial
LAN environments.

3.2.3   5G Core Network (5GC)
The 5GC provides the control and user plane functions necessary for managing
authentication, registration, and data sessions. The system supports integration
with both the open-source OpenAirInterface 5GC [51, 52] and the commercial
Cumucore 5GC [53]. OAI’s service-based architecture (SBA) enables modular
experimentation through standard APIs, while Cumucore’s NFV-based design offers
containerized and scalable deployments suitable for private networks. Both cores
provide essential network functions such as the AMF, SMF, and AUSF for executing
5G-AKA authentication and mobility management. Additionally, Cumucore extends
the architecture with advanced features including TSN and network slicing to support
industrial applications [53].
    Overall, the modular arrangement of UE, gNB gateway, and 5GC components
allows the system to replicate real 5G authentication and registration flows, while
remaining lightweight and interoperable across multiple platforms.

3.3     Control Plane Signaling and Security Mechanisms
The implemented system follows the standardized 5G control-plane signaling pro-
cedures defined in 3GPP specifications. In particular, Non-Access Stratum (NAS)
messages conform to the TLV/LV encoding format specified in 3GPP TS 24.501,
while NGAP messages between the gNB and the AMF are encoded using ASN.1
Packed Encoding Rules (PER). Each message exchange advances the UE through
a well-defined set of protocol states, including registration initiation, authentication
challenge, security mode activation, and registration completion, ensuring compliance
with the 5G-AKA-based registration procedure.
    To ensure robustness, the workflow incorporates message validation, state syn-
chronization, and timeout-based retransmission handling. Security mechanisms are
integrated following 3GPP TS 33.501 [38], which define the confidentiality and in-
tegrity protection of NAS signaling. Encryption is achieved using the NEA2 algorithm,
based on AES in counter mode (CTR), while integrity protection is provided by the
NIA2 algorithm employing AES-CMAC. These operations ensure confidentiality,
authenticity, and replay protection for all control-plane exchanges between the UE and
the core network.
    Key derivation and authentication processes follow the Milenage algorithm set
as defined in 3GPP TS 33.102 [44] and TS 33.501 [38]. The system computes the
functions 𝑓1 , 𝑓1∗ , 𝑓2 – 𝑓5 , 𝑓5∗ for generating the MAC, RES, and CK, IK. Higher-level
derivations, including 𝐾 𝐴𝑈𝑆𝐹 , 𝐾𝑆𝐸 𝐴𝐹 , and 𝐾 𝐴𝑀 𝐹 , are implemented to establish the
secure context required for NAS message protection.
    Figure 20 illustrates the end-to-end NAS security procedure and message flow
between the IoT UE, gNB gateway, and AMF. Each stage highlights where key
derivation, encryption (NEA2), and integrity protection (NIA2) are applied within

                                          35
Figure 20: Overview of the 5G NAS authentication and registration procedure
between the IoT UE and the AMF, showing key derivation, encryption (NEA2), and
integrity protection (NIA2) steps.


the authentication and registration sequence. Together, these mechanisms ensure that
the prototype accurately reproduces 5G-compliant security behavior while enabling
detailed experimentation in IoT–5G integration scenarios.


4     Implementation and Evaluation
This section describes the implementation of the proposed IoT-UE and minimal gNB
gateway and evaluates the system. First, the system setup are introduced. Then, the
implementation details of the UE and gateway are outlined, followed by an experimental
evaluation that examines functionality and interoperability with different 5G Core
implementations, registration performance and basic scalability, and security related
behaviour as observed from NAS and NGAP signaling traces.

4.1    System Setup
Fig. 21 presents the setup of this demonstration. The system architecture consists
of IoT UEs, a minimal gNB gateway, and a commercial 5G Core. The UE runs
a lightweight NAS stack in C, implementing the essential registration and session
establishment procedures, with authentication based on 5G-AKA and NAS security
using NIA2 and NEA2 [35, 47]. Credentials (IMSI, K, OPc, SQN) are stored locally
on the device. The gNB gateway establishes NGAP signaling over SCTP, relays NAS


                                         36
Figure 21: System setup of the demonstration, consisting of IoT UEs, a minimal
gNB gateway, and a commercial 5G Core.


messages, and maintains basic UE context. The Core is provided by Cumucore Oy,
that runs on a PC host and is connected with the gNB device over Ethernet. Raspberry
Pi devices act as UEs, connecting via Wi-Fi through the gNB node to achieve full
end-to-end registration with the 5G Core. The software implementation of the IoT UE
and gNB gateway is organized into modular components to facilitate maintainability
and clarity. The UE stack includes a NAS message encoder/decoder, a security
module implementing 5G-AKA and NAS integrity/ciphering (NIA2/NEA2), and a
state machine managing registration, authentication, and security procedures [35].
The gNB gateway acts primarily as a transparent relay, encapsulating NAS messages
into NGAP PDUs and forwarding them over SCTP to the AMF while maintaining UE
context for signaling purposes.
    In the demo setup, the gNB gateway establishes an NGAP association with the AMF
and acts as a transparent relay for NAS signaling between the IoT UE and the Core.
The IoT UE generates and transmits the required NAS messages (Registration Request,
Authentication Response, Security Mode Complete, and Registration Complete), while
the gNB maintains the minimal UE context and forwards Core-initiated procedures
such as Initial Context Setup and PDU Session Setup.
    All signaling exchanges were captured and analyzed in Wireshark, as shown
in Fig. 22. Wireshark automatically recognizes, classifies, and decodes standard
NAS and NGAP messages, and the successful decoding of all captured packets
confirms the correctness of the protocol implementation. The traces clearly show the
UE authentication challenge (RAND, AUTN), the computed response (RES*), the
activation of NAS security, and the establishment of a PDU session. This provides a
transparent view of how a constrained IoT device interacts with the 5G Core through
the minimal gNB gateway.
    Fig. 23 demonstrates the network architecture of the implementation with an


                                        37
Figure 22: Wireshark trace of NAS and NGAP signaling between the IoT UE, gNB
gateway, and 5G Core.


additional established data plane with Wireguard VPN tunnel between the 2 Raspberry
Pis. This can be done using the encrypted NAS channel where the 5G core transports
the VPN configuration to the 2 UEs. The configuration is only exposed to the UE that
have the ciphering and encrypting key derive from KAMF.




Figure 23: System architecture of the demonstration, consisting of IoT UEs stack, a
minimal gNB gateway, and a commercial 5G Core.



                                        38
4.2     Implementation Details
4.2.1   UE implementation and authentication handling
In the system, the IoT UE maintains a lightweight SoftSIM implemented as a local
credential database. The store contains the essential identifiers and authentication
material needed to execute the 5G-AKA procedure. In the code, the information is
stored in a global structure called UE.
    For example, the UE stores the Mobile Country Code (MCC = 208) and Mobile
Network Code (MNC = 95), together forming the PLMN identifier. The Mobile
Subscriber Identification Number (MSIN) is generated programmatically and combined
with the PLMN to form the SUPI. The database schema also includes the long-term key
𝐾 and operator variant algorithm configuration 𝑂𝑃𝑐 , which are required inputs for the
Milenage functions. For demonstration purposes, these values are statically assigned
in the implementation. Additional fields include the International Mobile Equipment
Identity Software Version (IMEISV), session counts for uplink and downlink NAS
security, and the Single Network Slice Selection Assistance Information (S-NSSAI)
with slice/service type (SST = 222) and slice differentiator (SD = 00007b). The default
Data Network Name (DNN) is set to ‘default”.
    The configuration is for seamless operation with OAI-5GCN, which database is
already populated with such subscribers’ configuration. Cumucore 5G core can be
configured with the same configuration. Therefore, we can run the same IoT UE+gNB
simulation stack with both cores. This eases up the developing and testing process.
    The SUPI is formatted as a concatenation of MCC, MNC, and MSIN. In
real deployments, this permanent identifier would be protected by means of SUCI
generation, using the UE’s physical SIM or eSIM to apply public key encryption
according to 3GPP TS 33.501. The nRF91xx chipset series, for example, supports both
nano-SIM and embedded SIM (eSIM), allowing secure storage and SUCI generation
in hardware.
    Table 4 summarizes the key fields in the credential store.

              Table 4: IoT UE credential store fields in the prototype.

           Field                  Example value
           MCC / MNC              208 / 95
           MSIN                   0000001234
           SUPI                   208950000001234
           Key 𝐾                  0c0a34601d4f07677303652c0462535b
           𝑂𝑃𝑐                    63bfa50ee6523365ff14c1f45f88737d
           IMEISV                 35609204079514
           S-NSSAI (SST/SD)       222 / 00007b
           DNN                    default

  The authentication of IoT UEs follows the 5G-AKA procedure, relying on the
3GPP-specified Milenage algorithms (functions 𝑓 1- 𝑓 5) and the standardized HMAC-
SHA256 KDF. The complete pipeline ensures both mutual authentication and the

                                          39
derivation of session keys.
    Upon receiving an Authentication Request, the UE parses the included
parameters: RAND, AUTN (detailed structure can be observed in B), and ABBA. The
response is computed as follows:

   1. Using 𝑓 2- 𝑓 5 with inputs (𝐾, 𝑂𝑃𝑐, 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷), the UE derives 𝐶𝐾, 𝐼𝐾, 𝐴𝐾, and
      𝑅𝐸 𝑆.

   2. The sequence number is recovered as 𝑆𝑄𝑁 = (𝑆𝑄𝑁 ⊕ 𝐴𝐾) ⊕ 𝐴𝐾.

   3. The network is authenticated by recomputing 𝑀 𝐴𝐶_𝐴 = 𝑓 1(𝐾, 𝑂𝑃𝑐, 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷, 𝑆𝑄𝑁, 𝐴𝑀 𝐹)
      and verifying it against the received 𝑀 𝐴𝐶 in AUTN.

   4. If validation succeeds, the UE derives the anchor key material: 𝐾 𝐴𝑈𝑆𝐹 , 𝐾𝑆𝐸 𝐴𝐹 ,
      and 𝐾 𝐴𝑀 𝐹 using the HMAC-SHA256 KDF.

   5. Finally, the UE computes the enhanced response 𝑅𝐸 𝑆 ∗ = KDF(𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷, 𝑅𝐸 𝑆, 𝐶𝐾, 𝐼𝐾),
      which is sent back to the AMF for verification.

   This sequence ensures that the UE authenticates the core network and that the
5GC can in turn verify the UE, while producing fresh session keys for 𝑁 𝐼 𝐴2 and
𝑁 𝐸 𝐴2. After successful mutual authentication using the Milenage functions, the UE
and the 5GC derive a set of hierarchical security keys in accordance with TS 33.501.
The derivation process begins with the anchor key 𝐾 𝐴𝑈𝑆𝐹 , computed as a HMAC-
SHA256-based KDF from the shared long-term key 𝐾 and the random challenge
𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷:

               𝐾 𝐴𝑈𝑆𝐹 = KDF(𝐾, FC = 0𝑥6𝐴, P0 = 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷, L0 = 128)
    Subsequently, the secondary key 𝐾𝑆𝐸 𝐴𝐹 is derived from 𝐾 𝐴𝑈𝑆𝐹 together with the
serving network name 𝑆𝑁 − 𝑛𝑎𝑚𝑒:

           𝐾𝑆𝐸 𝐴𝐹 = KDF(𝐾 𝐴𝑈𝑆𝐹 , FC = 0𝑥6𝐵, P0 = 𝑆𝑁-name, L0 = 128)
   The NAS keys for encryption (𝐾 𝑁 𝐴𝑆𝑒𝑛𝑐 ) and integrity (𝐾 𝑁 𝐴𝑆𝑖𝑛𝑡 ) are then obtained
from 𝐾 𝐴𝑀 𝐹 , which itself is derived as

              𝐾 𝐴𝑀 𝐹 = KDF(𝐾𝑆𝐸 𝐴𝐹 , FC = 0𝑥6𝐶, P0 = 𝑆𝑄𝑁, L0 = 128)
   Mathematically, the KDF is implemented via HMAC-SHA256 as follows:

   1. Concatenate the function code FC with all input parameters 𝑃0 , 𝑃1 , . . . , 𝑃𝑛 .

   2. Apply HMAC-SHA256 with the input key (e.g., 𝐾 or 𝐾 𝐴𝑈𝑆𝐹 ) to produce a
      256-bit output.

   3. Truncate or expand the result to the desired key length.



                                           40
The HMAC-SHA256 KDF and Milenage computations are implemented in our custom
C functions. The Milenage primitives ( 𝑓 1– 𝑓 5) produce intermediate outputs such as
𝑅𝐸 𝑆, 𝐶𝐾, 𝐼𝐾, and 𝐴𝐾, which are then fed into the HMAC-SHA256 KDF to generate
the hierarchical keys.
    This procedure guarantees that each session has fresh, cryptographically inde-
pendent keys for 𝑁 𝐸 𝐴2, 𝑁 𝐼 𝐴2, and inter-network authentication. The mathematical
combination of AES-based Milenage outputs and HMAC-SHA256 KDF ensures
strong one-way key derivation, resistant to replay and impersonation attacks[45].

4.2.2   gNB gateway integration and message forwarding
The gNB gateway implements the essential NG-RAN control-plane procedures required
for 5G UE registration and session management, including NG-Setup, Initial Context
Setup, and PDU Session Setup. During NG-Setup, the gNB establishes the NG
interface with the AMF by exchanging NG-Setup Request and Response messages to
configure the RAN node. Upon receiving the Initial UE Message from a connected UE,
the gNB allocates the UE-specific context and resources, enabling subsequent NAS
message exchanges. For data connectivity, the gNB supports PDU session creation by
constructing and routing PDU Session Establishment Request and Response messages.
    Each UE context maintains the current state of the UE in the registration, authenti-
cation, security, and PDU session establishment procedures. NAS messages are relayed
transparently between the UE and AMF: messages from the UE are encapsulated in
the appropriate NGAP container and forwarded to the AMF, while NAS messages
from the AMF are decapsulated and delivered to the correct UE context. The gNB also
handles connection management, including accepting new UE connections, cleaning
up disconnected UEs, and retransmitting pending messages if required.
    As shown in Fig. 24, the gNB operates using a minimal event-driven loop. After
initializing its communication sockets, the gNB continuously polls for events from
either the UE or the AMF. When receiving uplink NAS messages from a UE, it
wraps them in NGAP and forwards them to the AMF, advancing the UE state as
appropriate. Downlink NAS messages from the AMF are extracted and delivered
to the corresponding UE. This flowchart abstracts the detailed protocol operations,
highlighting the runtime control logic and NAS forwarding behavior of the gNB
simulation.

4.2.3   5GC configuration and interoperability validation
The OAI 5GC is deployed on an Ubuntu laptop. Each network function is developed in a
separate repository, such as oai-cn5g-amf, oai-cn5g-smf, and so on [52]. To build
the complete core network, a federation repository called oai-cn5g-fed is provided.
This repository includes the network components as submodules, a SQL database
preloaded with 100 authentication subscriptions, YAML files for building network
containers using Docker, and a Python script to orchestrate multiple docker-compose
configurations corresponding to different network topologies.



                                          41
Figure 24: Simplified gNB runtime flowchart showing socket initialization, event
polling, and NAS routing.


    Before running docker-compose, the Docker images of the 5GC network com-
ponents must be built. Users can either pull prebuilt images from the OAI Software
Alliance Docker Hub [54] or build the images from source code. In this work, since
the IoT-UE and gNB stacks mainly interact with the AMF, we opted to use prebuilt
images for all components except the AMF. This allows us to modify the AMF source

                                       42
code for testing, logging, or exposing internal information, significantly facilitating
development. Additionally, the deployment YAML files must be reconfigured to
expose the correct SCTP ports externally, as the default configuration only allows
access from other Docker containers.
    For this study, the provided “basic with VPP-UPF” topology was used. This
topology includes the essential 5G Core Network Functions: AMF, SMF, NRF,
AUSF, UDM, UDR, and the VPP-based UPF. The deployment tool launches these
containerized network functions, establishes their virtual network interconnections,
and optionally starts packet capture processes. During initialization, the helper script
performs automated health checks to ensure that each component reaches an operational
state.
    After deploying the core network, the logs of the network components can be
monitored to validate the authentication and registration procedures. Fig. 25 shows
the logs of the oai-amf component after successfully registering two UEs.




Figure 25: Logs of the OAI AMF component after successful registration of two
UEs.

    The Cumucore 5GCN is provided by the company in the form of a binary package,
accompanied by an installation bash script that automates the setup process. For
installation, a dedicated PC is prepared and booted with Ubuntu Server 24.04 LTS.
    After installation, unlike OAI 5GCN, which comes with a preconfigured database,
the Cumucore 5GCN requires proper configuration to work with our stack. This
includes setting the AMF’s network slices, tracking area codes, allowed PLMNs,
selecting ciphering and integrity algorithms, configuring the IP address exposed via
the Ethernet connection, adding authentication subscriptions, and activating the core
with the license token provided by the company. Although some configurations require
editing files directly in the core directory, Cumucore provides a user-friendly GUI
accessible through a web browser, which simplifies these tasks.
    Additionally, the GUI allows for the monitoring of subscribers in an organized
manner, as illustrated in Fig. 26.

4.3    Evaluation and Results
This section evaluates the proposed IoT-UE and minimal gNB gateway through
three categories of tests: (i) functionality, (ii) performance, and (iii) security-related
behavior. The goal is to verify correct protocol operation, quantify registration latency
under different conditions, and demonstrate secured data-plane communication.



                                           43
Figure 26: The GUI of Cumucore 5GCN after successful registration of two UEs.


4.3.1   Functionality Validation
Functionality tests focus on verifying that the proposed system correctly executes
the 5G registration and authentication workflow. Using Wireshark, all NAS and
NGAP messages exchanged between the IoT-UE, the gNB gateway, and the 5G Core
were captured and automatically decoded. This confirms the correctness of message
encoding, UE identifier handling, and the overall protocol state machine.
    Figure 27 shows representative traces. The top portion illustrates the full 5G-AKA
procedure, including the authentication challenge, the UE response, the activation of
NAS security, and subsequent encrypted NAS exchanges. The lower portion shows
encrypted WireGuard packets exchanged between two IoT UEs, validating data-plane
functionality after successful registration.

4.3.2   Performance Evaluation
Performance tests measure end-to-end registration and authentication time under
different hardware platforms, 5G Core implementations, and UE scaling conditions.
    We evaluate three parameters:

    • UE scaling: A single UE performs 100 registrations, and 100 UEs (100 IMSIs)
      register sequentially.

    • Hardware: (i) Ubuntu laptop and (ii) Raspberry Pi 5.

    • 5G Core: Cumucore 5GC (commercial) and OAI 5GC (open-source).

    Figure 28 presents average registration delays for all configurations. Measure-
ment labels follow the format <5GCN>_<UE-scale>_<platform>. Table 5 provides
detailed statistics (mean, standard error of the mean (SEM), standard deviation, and

                                         44
                                                    NGAP setup
                                                    handshake




                                                                    Authentication and Registration Procedure




                                                                           Captured WireGuard-encrypted data packet




            Encrypted NAS packet encapsulated in NGAP packet




Figure 27: Wireshark captures illustrating 5G control-plane signaling (5G-AKA and
encrypted NAS) and secured data-plane traffic over a WireGuard VPN tunnel.

range). Table 6 additionally reports mean/min/max values normalized to the best
(lowest) value in each column.
    The Cumucore 5GC shows stable performance with registration delays of 0.07–
0.08 s and a consistent SEM of ≈ 0.005 s across all conditions. This reflects predictable
commercial-grade control-plane behavior.
    The OAI 5GC exhibits shorter delays (0.02–0.03 s) with much lower variance,
largely due to its simplified internal procedures and limited feature set. Both cores
demonstrate full interoperability with the proposed IoT-UE and gNB gateway.




Figure 28: Mean and standard error of end-to-end authentication time across platforms
and 5G Core implementations (seconds).


                                                               45
Table 5: Statistical summary of registration delay across configurations (milliseconds).

      Metric                      Mean     SEM          Std     Min       Max       n
      cumucore_100ue_raspi         72.70    4.86       48.64   58.26    551.61   100
      cumucore_100ue_ubuntu        78.50    4.75       47.55   55.38    535.06   100
      cumucore_1ue_raspi           72.30    4.91       49.08   57.35    555.58   100
      cumucore_1ue_ubuntu          73.00    4.91       49.08   50.02    550.67   100
      oai_100ue_raspi              33.60    0.54        5.41   22.31     53.67   100
      oai_100ue_ubuntu             30.40    0.59        5.88   21.48     59.12   100
      oai_1ue_raspi                26.60    0.46        4.63   17.84     46.44   100
      oai_1ue_ubuntu               27.30    0.66        6.60   19.98     62.70   100

Table 6: Mean/min/max registration delay normalized by the best (lowest) value in
each column (dimensionless). Best values: mean = 26.60 ms, min = 17.84 ms, max =
46.44 ms (oai_1ue_raspi).

        Metric                        Mean / best       Min / best     Max / best
        cumucore_100ue_raspi                    2.73           3.27        11.88
        cumucore_100ue_ubuntu                   2.95           3.10        11.52
        cumucore_1ue_raspi                      2.72           3.21        11.96
        cumucore_1ue_ubuntu                     2.74           2.80        11.86
        oai_100ue_raspi                         1.26           1.25         1.16
        oai_100ue_ubuntu                        1.14           1.20         1.27
        oai_1ue_raspi                           1.00           1.00         1.00
        oai_1ue_ubuntu                          1.03           1.12         1.35


   To test control-plane robustness, we introduce concurrent user-plane traffic using
iperf3. As shown in Fig. 29, registration latency remains stable under load for both
5GC implementations. This demonstrates correct control–user plane separation and
confirms that the gateway performs reliably in realistic deployment scenarios.

4.3.3   Security-Related Evaluation
Beyond the correct activation of NAS security, we demonstrate a secured data-plane
tunnel between two IoT UEs. The gNB gateway relays WireGuard configuration
messages, enabling the establishment of an encrypted VPN tunnel. All resulting
traffic was verified through Wireshark captures and iperf3 throughput tests (Fig. 30),
confirming correct setup and stable encrypted communication.

4.4     Discussion
The implementation of this system involves multiple technologies and platforms,
which required careful planning and integration to harmonize the overall architecture.


                                           46
  Figure 29: Impact of user-plane traffic on registration performance (seconds).




      (a) Cumucore 5GC under load                   (b) OAI 5GC under load




      (a) WireGuard status on UE1                 (b) WireGuard status on UE2




                    (c) Encrypted WireGuard packets in Wireshark

   Figure 30: Demonstration of secured data-plane tunneling with WireGuard.


The components of the implementation include various hardware devices, such as an
Ubuntu laptop, a Raspberry Pi, and an Ubuntu server PC, interconnected through both
wired and wireless interfaces. Ensuring seamless communication and interoperability


                                        47
between these heterogeneous devices posed significant technical challenges.
    These challenges, however, also provided useful insights into the practicality of
the proposed design. First, the split between IoT-UE, gNB gateway, and 5GC made
it easier to isolate and debug faults. Second, running the C-based NGAP stack on
a Raspberry Pi shows that the control-plane design is feasible on resource-limited
hardware, though CPU and I/O limits matter for larger UE counts. It has low computing
and memory needs, making it accessible to low-power IoT platforms. It opens up
the possibility, with no changes to the existing Core network, to use it to manage
IoT nodes in IoT platforms such as LiFi, DECT-2020 NR, or backscatter. Third,
successful interoperability with both commercial and open-source 5G Cores indicates
that following NAS/NGAP specifications closely is sufficient to avoid vendor-specific
adaptations.
    Overall, the result shows that a lightweight UE and gateway architecture can deliver
standards-compliant 5G integration for IoT devices without specialized 5G hardware.
This suggests a general deployment pattern in which small, programmable gateways
bridge heterogeneous, non-3GPP IoT platforms to private 5G networks. The same
approach can be applied over different short range access technologies, such as LiFi,
DECT-2020 NR, or backscatter, in industrial and campus environments. Consequently,
the design provides a practical blueprint for extending 5G-grade security and control
to diverse IoT deployments, while its use of inexpensive off-the-shelf hardware enables
low-cost, rapid deployment.


5    Conclusion and Future Work
In this work, we demonstrated a lightweight C-based implementation of an IoT
UE and gNB gateway that can register directly with a commercial 5G Core. By
focusing primarily on NAS and NGAP signaling, our system avoids the complexity
and overhead of full protocol stacks while maintaining full interoperability with the
5GC. The evaluation results show that even constrained devices such as Raspberry Pi
and embedded development kits can reliably perform registration and authentication
with carrier-grade infrastructure. This validates the feasibility of securely integrating
IoT platforms into next-generation mobile networks without relying on heavyweight
gateways or proprietary solutions.
    Our contributions align with the long-term vision of 6G networks, particularly in
enabling massive IoT connectivity, supporting heterogeneous access, and promoting
security-driven orchestration. By demonstrating that lightweight devices can offload
authentication, session management, and traffic control to the 5G Core, we provide a
practical model for scalable and trustworthy IoT-to-5G integration in industrial and
enterprise scenarios.
    For future work, we plan to extend our implementation into a hybrid architecture
that leverages DECT NR+ for control signaling of NAS packets between the IoT UE
and gNB, while maintaining Wi-Fi for the data plane. Since DECT NR+ is designed
for URLLC, this split-plane setup would ensure robust and low-latency delivery of
control and management messages, leading to faster registration, authentication, and

                                           48
session updates. Meanwhile, the Wi-Fi data plane would continue to support bulk
traffic efficiently without congesting 5G signaling resources. Such a design would
optimize spectrum usage, enhance responsiveness for time-critical IoT applications,
and improve overall system robustness in industrial or enterprise deployments.
    This evolution of our system not only addresses immediate deployment needs
but also anticipates 6G objectives by (i) integrating diverse spectrum and access
technologies, (ii) improving responsiveness and reliability for time-sensitive IoT
scenarios, and (iii) ensuring scalable, secure, and resilient operation in heterogeneous
environments.


References
 [1] R. Salama et al. “(Benefits of Internet of Things (IoT) Applications in Health
     care - An Overview)”. In: 2023 International Conference on Computational
     Intelligence, Communication Technology and Networking (CICTN). 2023,
     pp. 778–784. doi: 10.1109/CICTN57981.2023.10141452.
 [2] N. N. Dlamini and K. Johnston. “The use, benefits and challenges of using
     the Internet of Things (IoT) in retail businesses: A literature review”. In:
     2016 International Conference on Advances in Computing and Communication
     Engineering (ICACCE). 2016, pp. 430–436. d o i: 10.1109/ICACCE.2016.
     8073787.
 [3] L. Fetahu, A. Maraj, and A. Havolli. “Internet of Things (IoT) benefits,
     future perspective, and implementation challenges”. In: 2022 45th Jubilee
     International Convention on Information, Communication and Electronic
     Technology (MIPRO). 2022, pp. 399–404. d o i: 10.23919/MIPRO55190.
     2022.9803487.
 [4] K. Bansal and A. Singhrova. “Review on intrusion detection system for
     IoT/IIoT -brief study”. eng. In: Multimedia tools and applications 83.8 (2024),
     pp. 23083–23108. issn: 1573-7721.
 [5] Y. Lu. “Industry 4.0: A survey on technologies, applications and open research
     issues”. In: Journal of Industrial Information Integration 6 (2017), pp. 1–10.
     i s s n: 2452-414X. d o i: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jii.2017.04.
     005. u r l: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
     S2452414X17300043.
 [6] E. P. I. ( 2. ). Ericsson Mobility Report, June 2025. Company Report. Available
     at: https://www.ericsson.com/en/reports-and-papers/mobility-
     report/reports. Ericsson, July 2025.
 [7] A. N. Jahromi et al. “Toward Detection and Attribution of Cyber-Attacks in
     IoT-Enabled Cyber–Physical Systems”. In: IEEE Internet of Things Journal
     8.17 (2021), pp. 13712–13722. doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2021.3067667.




                                          49
 [8] S. M. Kasongo. “An Advanced Intrusion Detection System for IIoT Based
     on GA and Tree Based Algorithms”. In: IEEE Access 9 (2021), pp. 113199–
     113212. doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3104113.
 [9] M. Mohy-Eddine et al. “An Ensemble Learning Based Intrusion Detection
     Model for Industrial IoT Security”. In: Big Data Mining and Analytics 6.3
     (2023), pp. 273–287. doi: 10.26599/BDMA.2022.9020032.
[10] A. Ayub Khan et al. “Internet of Things (IoT) Security With Blockchain Tech-
     nology: A State-of-the-Art Review”. In: IEEE Access 10 (2022), pp. 122679–
     122695. doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3223370.
[11] W. Zhang, Y. Bai, and J. Feng. “TIIA: A blockchain-enabled Threat Intelligence
     Integrity Audit scheme for IIoT”. In: Future Generation Computer Systems
     132 (2022), pp. 254–265. i s s n: 0167-739X. d o i: https://doi.org/10.
     1016/j.future.2022.02.023. u r l: https://www.sciencedirect.
     com/science/article/pii/S0167739X22000723.
[12] Y. Wu, H.-N. Dai, and H. Wang. “Convergence of Blockchain and Edge
     Computing for Secure and Scalable IIoT Critical Infrastructures in Industry
     4.0”. In: IEEE Internet of Things Journal 8.4 (2021), pp. 2300–2317. d o i:
     10.1109/JIOT.2020.3025916.
[13] P. Bhattacharya et al. “MB-MaaS: Mobile Blockchain-based Mining-as-
     a-Service for IIoT environments”. In: Journal of Parallel and Distributed
     Computing 168 (2022), pp. 1–16. issn: 0743-7315. doi: https://doi.org/
     10.1016/j.jpdc.2022.05.008. u r l: https://www.sciencedirect.
     com/science/article/pii/S0743731522001228.
[14] S. Pirbhulal et al. “IoT cybersecurity in 5G and beyond: a systematic literature
     review”. eng. In: International journal of information security 23.4 (2024),
     pp. 2827–2879. issn: 1615-5262.
[15] ETSI. DECT-2020 New Radio (NR); Part 1: Overview; Release 2. Technical
     Specification ETSI TS 103 636-1. Version 2.1.1. Available at: https :
     //www.etsi.org/standards. European Telecommunications Standards
     Institute (ETSI), Oct. 2024.
[16] M. Vaezi et al. “Cellular, Wide-Area, and Non-Terrestrial IoT: A Survey on
     5G Advances and the Road Toward 6G”. In: IEEE Communications Surveys &
     Tutorials 24.2 (2022), pp. 1117–1174. doi: 10.1109/COMST.2022.3151028.
[17] B. B. Gupta and M. Quamara. “An Overview of Internet of Things (IoT):
     Architectural Aspects, Challenges, and Protocols”. In: Concurrency and
     Computation: Practice and Experience 32 (2018). doi: 10.1002/cpe.4946.
[18] F. Guo et al. “Enabling Massive IoT Toward 6G: A Comprehensive Survey”.
     In: IEEE Internet of Things Journal 8.15 (2021), pp. 11891–11915. d o i:
     10.1109/JIOT.2021.3063686.




                                         50
[19] T. S. S. (.-T. International Telecommunication Union. Overview of the Internet of
     things. Recommendation ITU-T Y.4000/Y.2060 Y.4000/Y.2060. Formerly ITU-
     T Y.2060, renumbered as ITU-T Y.4000 on 2016-02-05 without modification.
     Geneva, Switzerland: ITU-T, June 2012. u r l: https://handle.itu.int/
     11.1002/1000/11559.
[20] K. Shafique et al. “Internet of Things (IoT) for Next-Generation Smart Systems:
     A Review of Current Challenges, Future Trends and Prospects for Emerging
     5G-IoT Scenarios”. In: IEEE Access 8 (2020), pp. 23022–23040. d o i:
     10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2970118.
[21] A. Mahmood et al. “Industrial IoT in 5G-and-Beyond Networks: Vision,
     Architecture, and Design Trends”. In: IEEE Transactions on Industrial
     Informatics 18.6 (2022), pp. 4122–4137. doi: 10.1109/TII.2021.3115697.
[22] P. Varga et al. “5G support for Industrial IoT Applications— Challenges,
     Solutions, and Research gaps”. eng. In: Sensors (Basel, Switzerland) 20.3
     (2020), pp. 828–. issn: 1424-8220.
[23] “IEEE Standard for Ethernet”. In: IEEE Std 802.3-2022 (Revision of IEEE Std
     802.3-2018) (2022), pp. 1–7025. doi: 10.1109/IEEESTD.2022.9844436.
[24]   url: https://1.ieee802.org/tsn/.
[25] C. C. Sobin. “A Survey on Architecture, Protocols and Challenges in IoT”. eng.
     In: Wireless personal communications 112.3 (2020), pp. 1383–1429. i s s n:
     0929-6212.
[26] A. Rana et al. “Architectures, Benefits, Security, and Privacy Issues of Internet
     of Nano Things: A Comprehensive Survey, Opportunities, and Research
     Challenges”. In: IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials 27.2 (2025),
     pp. 1152–1190. doi: 10.1109/COMST.2024.3423477.
[27] A. Al-Fuqaha et al. “Internet of Things: A Survey on Enabling Technologies,
     Protocols, and Applications”. In: IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials
     17.4 (2015), pp. 2347–2376. doi: 10.1109/COMST.2015.2444095.
[28] I. H. Sarker et al. “Internet of things (iot) security intelligence: a comprehensive
     overview, machine learning solutions and research directions”. In: Mobile
     Networks and Applications 28.1 (2023), pp. 296–312.
[29] Y. R. Siwakoti et al. “Advances in IoT Security: Vulnerabilities, Enabled
     Criminal Services, Attacks, and Countermeasures”. In: IEEE Internet of
     Things Journal 10.13 (2023), pp. 11224–11239. doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2023.
     3252594.
[30] E. Illi et al. “Physical layer security for authentication, confidentiality, and
     malicious node detection: A paradigm shift in securing IoT networks”. In:
     IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials 26.1 (2023), pp. 347–388.
[31] A. Jahangeer et al. “A Review on the Security of IoT Networks: From Network
     Layer’s Perspective”. In: IEEE Access 11 (2023), pp. 71073–71087. d o i:
     10.1109/ACCESS.2023.3246180.

                                           51
[32] D. D. Rao et al. “Strategizing IoT network layer security through advanced
     intrusion detection systems and AI-driven threat analysis”. In: Full Length
     Article 12.2 (2024), pp. 195–95.
[33] N. Mishra and S. Pandya. “Internet of Things Applications, Security Challenges,
     Attacks, Intrusion Detection, and Future Visions: A Systematic Review”. In:
     IEEE Access 9 (2021), pp. 59353–59377. d o i: 10.1109/ACCESS.2021.
     3073408.
[34] T. Cogalan et al. “5G-CLARITY: 5G-Advanced Private Networks Integrating
     5GNR, WiFi, and LiFi”. In: IEEE Communications Magazine 60.2 (2022),
     pp. 73–79. doi: 10.1109/MCOM.001.2100615.
[35] 3. G. P. P. (3GPP). System Architecture for the 5G System (5GS). Technical
     Specification TS 23.501. Version 18.10.0. Available at: https://www.3gpp.
     org/. 3GPP, June 2025.
[36] L. Chettri and R. Bera. “A Comprehensive Survey on Internet of Things (IoT)
     Toward 5G Wireless Systems”. In: IEEE Internet of Things Journal 7.1 (2020),
     pp. 16–32. doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2019.2948888.
[37] 3. G. P. P. (3GPP). Study on scenarios and requirements for next generation
     access technologies. Technical report TR 38.913. Version 17.0.0. Available at:
     https://www.3gpp.org/. 3GPP, Apr. 2022.
[38] 3. G. P. P. (3GPP). Security architecture and procedures for 5G System.
     Technical Specification TS 33.501. Version 18.9.0. Available at: https:
     //www.3gpp.org/. 3GPP, Apr. 2025.
[39] J. Vollbrecht et al. Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP). RFC 3748. June
     2004. d o i: 10.17487/RFC3748. u r l: https://www.rfc-editor.org/
     info/rfc3748.
[40] O. Friel and D. Harkins. Bootstrapped TLS Authentication with Proof of
     Knowledge (TLS-POK). Internet-Draft draft-ietf-emu-bootstrapped-tls-11.
     Work in Progress. Internet Engineering Task Force, Oct. 2025. 16 pp.
     u r l: https : / / datatracker . ietf . org / doc / draft - ietf - emu -
     bootstrapped-tls/11/.
[41] J. Arkko and H. Haverinen. Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for 3rd
     Generation Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA). RFC 4187. Jan.
     2006. d o i: 10.17487/RFC4187. u r l: https://www.rfc-editor.org/
     info/rfc4187.
[42] J. Arkko et al. Improved Extensible Authentication Protocol Method for
     3GPP Mobile Network Authentication and Key Agreement (EAP-AKA’). RFC
     9048. Oct. 2021. d o i: 10.17487/RFC9048. u r l: https://www.rfc-
     editor.org/info/rfc9048.
[43] 3. G. P. P. (3GPP). Generic Authentication Architecture (GAA); Generic
     Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA). Technical Specification TS 33.220. Ver-
     sion 16.4.0. Available at: https://www.3gpp.org/. 3GPP, June 2021.

                                        52
[44] 3. G. P. P. (3GPP). 3G security; Security architecture. Technical Specification
     TS 33.102. Version 18.0.0. Available at: https://www.3gpp.org/. 3GPP,
     Apr. 2024.
[45] E. K. K. Edris, M. Aiash, and J. K.-K. Loo. “Formal Verification and Analysis
     of Primary Authentication based on 5G-AKA Protocol”. In: 2020 Seventh
     International Conference on Software Defined Systems (SDS). 2020, pp. 256–
     261. doi: 10.1109/SDS49854.2020.9143899.
[46] S. Sinha. State of IoT 2024: Number of Connected IoT Devices Growing 13%
     to 18.8 Billion Globally. Accessed: Oct. 20, 2025. IoT Analytics. 2024. url:
     https://iot-analytics.com/number-connected-iot-devices.
[47] 3. G. P. P. (3GPP). Non-Access-Stratum (NAS) Protocol for 5G System (5GS).
     Technical Specification TS 24.501. Version 18.11.1. Available at: https:
     //www.3gpp.org/. 3GPP, July 2025.
[48] M. A. Uddin et al. “A survey on the adoption of blockchain in IoT: challenges and
     solutions”. In: Blockchain: Research and Applications 2.2 (2021), p. 100006.
     i s s n: 2096-7209. d o i: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bcra.2021.
     100006. u r l: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
     pii/S2096720921000014.
[49] M. Hojjati, A. Shafieinejad, and H. Yanikomeroglu. “A Blockchain-Based
     Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA) Protocol for 5G Networks”. In:
     IEEE Access 8 (2020), pp. 216461–216476. d o i: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.
     3041710.
[50] M. Papadopoulos, K. Lampropoulos, and P. Kitsos. “An FPGA Architecture of
     Extensible Authentication Protocol EAP- AKA’ for 5G Networks”. In: 2025
     14th Mediterranean Conference on Embedded Computing (MECO). 2025,
     pp. 1–5. doi: 10.1109/MECO66322.2025.11049105.
[51] OpenAirInterface5G. OpenAirInterface 5G Radio Access Network Project.
     https://gitlab.eurecom.fr/oai/openairinterface5g. Accessed:
     2025-09-08.
[52] OpenAirInterface Software Alliance. OpenAirInterface 5G Core Network
     Project. Accessed: 2025-10-20. 2025. url: https://openairinterface.
     org/oai-5g-core-network-project/.
[53] CumuCore Oy. CumuCore: The Mobile Private Network for Your Company.
     Accessed: 2025-10-20. 2025. url: https://cumucore.com/.
[54] OpenAirInterface Software Alliance. OAI. https://hub.docker.com/u/
     oaisoftwarealliance. Accessed: 2025-10-21. 2025.
[55] Software Radio Systems. srsRAN Project. https://github.com/srsran/
     srsRAN_Project. Accessed: 2025-09-08. 2025.




                                         53
[56] 3. G. P. P. (3GPP). 3G Security; Specification of the MILENAGE algorithm
     set: An example algorithm set for the 3GPP authentication and key generation
     functions f1, f1*, f2, f3, f4, f5 and f5*; Document 2: Algorithm specification.
     Technical Specification TS 35.206. Version 14.0.0. Available at: https:
     //www.3gpp.org/. 3GPP, Mar. 2017.
[57] H. Krawczyk, M. Bellare, and R. Canetti. HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message
     Authentication. RFC 2104. Feb. 1997. d o i: 10.17487/RFC2104. u r l:
     https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2104.
[58] A. M. Bahaa-Eldin. “Intelligent Systems for Information Security”. eng. In:
     arXiv.org (2014). issn: 2331-8422.
[59] N. I. of Standards and Technology. “Advanced Encryption Standard”. In: NIST
     FIPS PUB 197 (2001).
[60] ETSI. DECT-2020 New Radio (NR); Part 1: Overview; Release 2. Tech-
     nical Specification ETSI TS 103 636-1. Version 2.1.1 (2024-10). European
     Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), Oct. 2024. u r l: https:
     //www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_ts/103600_103699/10363601/02.
     01.01_60/ts_10363601v020101p.pdf (visited on Nov. 25, 2025).




                                        54
A     Confidentiality Algorithm
Within the 3GPP security architecture, seven core security functions are specified,
namely 𝑓1 , 𝑓1∗ , 𝑓2 , 𝑓3 , 𝑓4 , 𝑓5 , and 𝑓5∗ . These abstract functions provide the primitives
for authentication, key generation, and integrity/confidentiality protection in the
Authentication and Key Agreement (AKA) family of protocols. In practice, the
abstract functions 𝑓1 – 𝑓5∗ are instantiated by concrete algorithm sets; a widely adopted
instantiation is the MILENAGE algorithm set, which maps the 𝑓 -functions to AES-
based computations using operator-specific parameters (OP/OPc). The MILENAGE
specification and its mapping of the 𝑓 -functions to concrete inputs/outputs is defined
in 3GPP TS 35.206 [56]. The detailed inputs and outputs of the 𝑓 -functions used
throughout this thesis are presented in Table A1.

        Table A1: Inputs and Outputs of Functions 𝑓 1– 𝑓 5∗ adapted from [56]

 Parameter        Size (bits)      Comment
 Inputs to 𝑓 1 and 𝑓 1∗
 𝐾                128              Subscriber key 𝐾 [0] . . . 𝐾 [127].
 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷           128              Random challenge 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷 [0] . . . 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷 [127].
 𝑆𝑄𝑁              48               Sequence number 𝑆𝑄𝑁 [0] . . . 𝑆𝑄𝑁 [47] (for 𝑓 1∗ this
                                   input is called 𝑆𝑄𝑁 𝑀𝑆 ).
 𝐴𝑀 𝐹                16            Authentication                management        field
                                   𝐴𝑀 𝐹 [0] . . . 𝐴𝑀 𝐹 [15].
 Inputs to 𝑓 2, 𝑓 3, 𝑓 4, 𝑓 5, and 𝑓 5∗
 𝐾                  128           Subscriber key 𝐾 [0] . . . 𝐾 [127].
 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷             128           Random challenge 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷 [0] . . . 𝑅 𝐴𝑁 𝐷 [127].
 Outputs of 𝑓 1
 𝑀 𝐴𝐶_𝐴              64            Network            authentication                       code
                                   𝑀 𝐴𝐶_𝐴[0] . . . 𝑀 𝐴𝐶_𝐴[63].
 Outputs of 𝑓 1∗
 𝑀 𝐴𝐶_𝑆          64                Resynchronisation        authentication                 code
                                   𝑀 𝐴𝐶_𝑆[0] . . . 𝑀 𝐴𝐶_𝑆[63].
 Outputs of 𝑓 2
 𝑅𝐸 𝑆                64            Response 𝑅𝐸 𝑆[0] . . . 𝑅𝐸 𝑆[63].
 Outputs of 𝑓 3
 𝐶𝐾                  128           Confidentiality key 𝐶𝐾 [0] . . . 𝐶𝐾 [127].
 Outputs of 𝑓 4
 𝐼𝐾                  128           Integrity key 𝐼𝐾 [0] . . . 𝐼𝐾 [127].
 Outputs of 𝑓 5
 𝐴𝐾                  48            Anonymity key 𝐴𝐾 [0] . . . 𝐴𝐾 [47].
 Outputs of 𝑓 5∗
                                                                      Continued on next page


                                              55
                       Table A1 – continued from previous page
 Parameter         Size (bits) Comment
 𝐴𝐾                48          Resynchronisation anonymity key 𝐴𝐾 [0] . . . 𝐴𝐾 [47].

    For completeness, the variables used in these algorithms are defined in Table A2,
while the formal symbols and operators employed in their specification are listed
in Table A3. Together, these tables provide the notation and definitions required to
understand the derivation and operation of the 5G AKA security functions.

            Table A2: List of Variables in 5G AKA adapted from [56]

 Variable           Description
 AK                 A 48-bit anonymity key that is the output of either of the functions
                     𝑓 5 and 𝑓 5∗ .
 AMF                A 16-bit authentication management field that is an input to the
                    functions 𝑓 1 and 𝑓 1∗ .
 𝑐1, 𝑐2, 𝑐3, 𝑐4, 𝑐5 128-bit constants, which are XORed onto intermediate variables.
 CK                 A 128-bit confidentiality key that is the output of the function
                     𝑓 3.
 IK                 A 128-bit integrity key that is the output of the function 𝑓 4.
 IN1                A 128-bit value constructed from SQN and AMF and used in the
                    computation of the functions 𝑓 1 and 𝑓 1∗ .
 K                  A 128-bit subscriber key that is an input to the functions
                     𝑓 1, 𝑓 1∗ , 𝑓 2, 𝑓 3, 𝑓 4, 𝑓 5, 𝑓 5∗ .
 MAC-A              A 64-bit network authentication code that is the output of the
                    function 𝑓 1.
 MAC-S              A 64-bit resynchronisation authentication code that is the output
                    of the function 𝑓 1∗ .
 OP                 A 128-bit Operator Variant Algorithm Configuration Field used
                    in 𝑓 1, 𝑓 1∗ , 𝑓 2, 𝑓 3, 𝑓 4, 𝑓 5, 𝑓 5∗ .
 OPC                A 128-bit value derived from OP and K and used within the
                    computation of the functions.
 OUT1–OUT5 128-bit computed values from which the outputs of
                     𝑓 1, 𝑓 1∗ , 𝑓 2, 𝑓 3, 𝑓 4, 𝑓 5, 𝑓 5∗ are obtained.
 𝑟1, 𝑟2, 𝑟3, 𝑟4, 𝑟5 Integers in the range 0–127 inclusive, defining the amounts by
                    which intermediate variables are cyclically rotated.
 RAND               A           128-bit         random          challenge  input      to
                             ∗                          ∗
                     𝑓 1, 𝑓 1 , 𝑓 2, 𝑓 3, 𝑓 4, 𝑓 5, 𝑓 5 .
 RES                A 64-bit signed response that is the output of the function 𝑓 2.
 SQN                A 48-bit sequence number input to 𝑓 1 and 𝑓 1∗ (for 𝑓 1∗ , more
                    precisely called 𝑆𝑄𝑁 𝑀𝑆 ).
 TEMP               A 128-bit value used within the computation of the functions.




                                           56
             Table A3: List of Symbols in 5G AKA adapted from [56]

 Symbol              Description
 =                   The assignment operator.
 ⊕                   The bitwise exclusive-OR operation.
 ||                  Concatenation of the two operands.
 𝐸 [𝑥] 𝑘             Result of applying a block cipher encryption to the input value
                     𝑥 using the key 𝑘.
 rot(𝑥, 𝑟)           Result of cyclically rotating the 128-bit value 𝑥 by 𝑟
                     bit positions towards the most significant bit. If 𝑥 =
                     𝑥 [0]||𝑥 [1]|| . . . ||𝑥 [127], and 𝑦 = rot(𝑥, 𝑟), then 𝑦 =
                     𝑥 [𝑟]||𝑥 [𝑟 + 1]|| . . . ||𝑥 [127]||𝑥 [0]||𝑥 [1]|| . . . ||𝑥 [𝑟 − 1].
 𝑋 [𝑖]               The 𝑖 th bit of the variable 𝑋 (i.e., 𝑋 = 𝑋 [0]||𝑋 [1]||𝑋 [2]|| . . . ).

    The functions 𝑓 1– 𝑓 5∗ rely heavily on symmetric key operations to ensure confi-
dentiality, integrity, and authentication within the 5G AKA protocol. In particular,
many of these functions make use of block cipher operations for key derivation and
cryptographic transformations. The security of the 5G AKA procedure therefore
depends on a robust and well-analyzed block cipher as its core primitive.
    The 3GPP specifications standardize the use of the Rijndael block cipher, more
commonly known as the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), as the underlying
block cipher for these functions. The following subsection briefly describes the
Rijndael algorithm and its relevance to the 5G security functions.
    Rijndael is a symmetric-key block cipher algorithm developed by Belgian cryp-
tographers Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen. In 2001, it was selected by the U.S.
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) as the Advanced Encryption
Standard (AES) [59]. Rijndael operates on fixed-size blocks of data and applies
iterative transformations to achieve confidentiality, integrity, and authentication. It
supports key lengths of 128, 192, or 256 bits; for 3GPP applications, both the block
and key length are set to 128 bits.
    AES accepts input as one-dimensional arrays of 8-bit bytes, which are mapped
onto a 4 × 4 byte matrix called the state. The cipher key is similarly represented
as a one-dimensional array of 8-bit bytes. Encryption proceeds through a series of
transformations on the state, which include:

    • Byte Substitution (SubBytes): Each byte in the state is replaced using a
      non-linear substitution table (S-box).

    • Row Shifting (ShiftRows): Bytes in each row of the state matrix are cyclically
      shifted to the left by different offsets.

    • Column Mixing (MixColumns): Columns of the state are transformed using
      matrix multiplication over a finite field GF(28 ), with overflow bits reduced
      modulo an irreducible polynomial.

    • Add Round Key: A round-specific subkey is XORed with the state.

                                            57
   The number of rounds depends on the key size:
    • 128-bit key: 10 rounds
    • 192-bit key: 12 rounds
    • 256-bit key: 14 rounds
    Rijndael derives a set of round keys from the original cipher key using a key
schedule. For 128-bit and 192-bit keys, each round key is generated by cyclically
rotating the previous key word, applying the S-box, and XORing with a round-
dependent constant. For 256-bit keys, additional S-box transformations are applied to
specific words in the expanded key. These subkeys are then used in the Add Round
Key step of each encryption round.

Mathematical Representation of AES Operations Let the state at round 𝑟 be
denoted as 𝑆 (𝑟) , a 4 × 4 byte matrix. The main AES operations can be expressed as
follows:

Byte Substitution (SubBytes)

                         𝑠𝑖,(𝑟+1) = SBox 𝑠𝑖,(𝑟)𝑗 ,
                                        (︁ )︁
                              𝑗                              0 ≤ 𝑖, 𝑗 ≤ 3

Row Shifting (ShiftRows)

                         𝑠𝑖,(𝑟+1)
                              𝑗
                                     (𝑟)
                                  = 𝑠𝑖,( 𝑗+𝑖) mod 4
                                                    ,        0 ≤ 𝑖, 𝑗 ≤ 3

Column Mixing (MixColumns) Each column vector 𝑐 = [𝑠0, 𝑗 , 𝑠1, 𝑗 , 𝑠2, 𝑗 , 𝑠3, 𝑗 ] 𝑇 is
transformed using a fixed matrix over GF(28 ):
                                     ⎡02         03     01    01⎤⎥
                                     ⎢
                                 ′
                                     ⎢01         02     03    01⎥⎥
                                𝑐 = ⎢⎢                             ·𝑐
                                     ⎢01         01     02    03⎥⎥
                                     ⎢03         01     01    02⎥⎦
                                     ⎣

Add Round Key
                          𝑠𝑖,(𝑟+1)
                               𝑗   = 𝑠𝑖,(𝑟)𝑗 ⊕ 𝑘 𝑖,(𝑟)𝑗 ,    0 ≤ 𝑖, 𝑗 ≤ 3
    The overall transformation for one AES round can be compactly written as, and
the graphical visualization can be observed in fig. A1:
       𝑆 (𝑟+1) = AddRoundKey ◦ MixColumns ◦ ShiftRows ◦ SubBytes(𝑆 (𝑟) )


   Finally, the complete AES encryption of a plaintext block 𝑃 with key 𝐾 over 𝑁
rounds is:
          𝐶 = AES𝐾 (𝑃) = Round𝑁−1 ◦ · · · ◦ Round1 ◦ InitialRound(𝑃, 𝐾)

                                                   58
     Figure A1: Visualization of the AES round function Adapted from [58]


    AES provides strong security against linear and differential cryptanalysis, timing
and power attacks, and opportunistic attacks. Its flexible key and block sizes, low
memory requirements, and efficient implementation in both hardware and software
make it suitable for a wide range of applications, including mobile devices, smart
cards, and large-scale computing platforms. Compared to legacy algorithms such
as DES, AES is significantly faster in software and allows for higher cryptographic
security through increased key length and transformation rounds. In the context of 5G
and 5G-AKA, Rijndael is used exclusively in encryption mode to derive confidentiality
and integrity keys, ensuring secure exchange of authentication vectors, session keys,
and subscriber data.
    Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication, commonly referred to as HMAC, is a
mechanism for ensuring both data integrity and authenticity of messages [57]. HMAC
combines a cryptographic hash function with a secret key, providing a secure method
to verify that a message has not been altered and that it originates from a legitimate
sender.
    In the context of 5G-AKA, HMAC-SHA256 is used as a core component of key


                                         59
derivation functions (KDFs) to generate various session and authentication keys from
master secrets. HMAC operates as follows:
    • A secret key is first padded to the block size of the underlying hash function
      (SHA-256 in this case).
    • The padded key is XORed with an inner padding constant, then concatenated
      with the message to be authenticated.
    • The hash function is applied to the result, producing an intermediate hash.
    • The padded key is then XORed with an outer padding constant and concatenated
      with the intermediate hash.
    • Finally, the hash function is applied again, yielding the HMAC output.
    The resulting HMAC value is used as an input to various 5G key derivation
functions to ensure that derived keys maintain integrity and resistance to tampering or
replay attacks.
    The detailed inputs and outputs of the KDF functions used in 5G-AKA, which
rely on HMAC-SHA256, are presented in A1.
    Mathematically, HMAC is expressed as:
                                  (︂                                    )︂
                HMAC𝐾 (𝑚) = 𝐻 (𝐾 ′ ⊕ opad) || 𝐻 ((𝐾 ′ ⊕ ipad) || 𝑚)

    where:
    • 𝐻 (·) is the hash function (SHA-256),
    • 𝐾 ′ is the key padded to the block size,
    • ipad = 0𝑥36 and opad = 0𝑥5𝐶 repeated to the block size,
    • || denotes concatenation.
   In 5G-AKA, the derived keys are computed via KDFs using HMAC-SHA256 as a
pseudorandom function (PRF):
                          𝐾derived = KDF(CK||IK, Context)
    Here, the concatenated CK and IK form the secret input, while Context encapsulates
identifiers such as SUPI, serving network name, and algorithm identifiers. This ensures
that all session and authentication keys inherit strong integrity and confidentiality
properties from the master secrets.
    Together, AES and HMAC form the cryptographic backbone of 5G-AKA, providing
confidentiality, integrity, and authentication for secure communication between the
UE and the 5G Core network.


B     NAS Content

                                          60
                 Table B1: Registration Request (UE → AMF)

Information Element (IE)         Purpose / Function
NAS key set identifier (ngKSI)   Identifies the active NAS security context between the UE
                                 and the 5G Core. In 5G Standalone (SA), it always refers
                                 to a native 5G context (KSI_AMF), ensuring the correct
                                 authentication, integrity, and encryption keys are applied.
5GS Mobile Identity              Concealed permanent identifier used for privacy protection
                                 (SUPI concealment). The core network uses this field to
                                 verify in the subscription database whether the UE is a valid
                                 subscriber.
UE Security Capability           Lists supported NAS integrity/ciphering algorithms (e.g.,
                                 NIA2, NEA2).
5GS update type / DNN            Indicates requested update type or connectivity, e.g., for CIoT
                                 behaviour or SMS over NAS.

               Table B2: Authentication Request (AMF → UE)

Information Element (IE)         Purpose / Function
ABBA                             5G parameter used to avoid bidding-down attacks between
                                 authentication methods (e.g., ensuring consistency between
                                 5G-AKA and EAP-AKA’). It protects against downgrade
                                 attempts by malicious intermediaries.
RAND                             Random parameter generated by the core network.
AUTN                             Authentication token: contains the concealed sequence num-
                                 ber (SQN ⊕ AK), the AMF field, and a MAC.

               Table B3: Authentication Response (UE → AMF)

Information Element (IE)         Purpose / Function
RES*                             UE-computed response (RES or RES*)

              Table B4: Security Mode Command (AMF → UE)

Information Element (IE)      Purpose / Function
NAS selected security algo-   Indicate the selected integrity algorithm (NIA) and ciphering
rithms                        algorithm (NEA).
UE Security Capability        Replay of the UE security capability IE that is sent in the
                              Registration Request message.
IMEISV request                Core requests a 16-digit number that identifies a mobile
                              device and its specific software version.
Additional 5G Security Infor- Core may request retransmission of Registration Request.
mation


                                        61
             Table B5: Security Mode Complete (UE → AMF)

Information Element (IE)     Purpose / Function
IMEISV                       Send the requested parameter to the core.
NAS Message Container        The requested retransmission of the Registration Request
                             message is included in this IE




                Table B6: Registration Accept (AMF → UE)

Information Element (IE)     Purpose / Function
5GS registration result      Result of the registration process
Assigned 5G-GUTI / TAI       Temporary identifier and registration area information as-
                             signed by AMF.
Allowed NSSAI / DNN info     Slice and data network assignments approved by network.




               Table B7: Registration Complete (UE → AMF)

Information Element (IE)     Purpose / Function
Optional NAS Container / IEs Confirms completion; may carry optional configuration or
                             status information.




                                    62
C     Code Snippets

                  Listing 1: UE authentication structure definition
# i f n d e f UE_H
# d e f i n e UE_H

# include    < s t d i n t . h>
# include    < s t d b o o l . h>
# include    < s t r i n g . h>
# include    < s t d l i b . h>

typedef struct
{
    char ∗ opc ;
    char ∗k ;
    u i n t 8 _ t rand [ 1 6 ] ;
    uint8_t autn [ 1 6 ] ;
    u i n t 8 _ t sqn_xor_ak [ 6 ] ;
    u i n t 8 _ t amf [ 2 ] ;
    u i n t 8 _ t mac [ 8 ] ;
    u i n t 8 _ t sqn [ 6 ] ;
    u i n t 8 _ t ck [ 1 6 ] ;
    uint8_t ik [16];
    u i n t 8 _ t ak [ 6 ] ;
    uint8_t resstar [16];
    u i n t 8 _ t abba [ 2 ] ;
    uint8_t kint [16];
    u i n t 8 _ t kenc [ 1 6 ] ;
} authparam ;

typedef struct
{
    bool imeisv ;
    bool rinmr ;
} recv_flag ;

typedef struct
{
     uint8_t pduSessionId ;
     uint8_t procedureTransactionId ;
} sm ;

typedef struct
{

                                        63
    char ∗ s d ;
    int sst ;
} snssai ;

typedef struct
{
    char ∗ i m e i s v ;
    char ∗ s u p i ;
    char ∗ msin ;
     int routing_indicator ;
    char ∗ p r o t e c t i o n s c h e m e ;
    char ∗ dnn ;
     i n t mcc ;
     i n t mnc ;
     uint32_t dl_count ;
     uint32_t ul_count ;
     authparam auth ;
     recv_flag recv_flag ;
    sm sm ;
     snssai snssai ;
} UE ;

e x t e r n UE ∗ ue ;

UE ∗ u e _ i n i t ( ) ;
v o i d u e _ f r e e (UE ∗u ) ;

# endif


D     Sequence Diagram




                                               64
Figure D1: Sequence diagram of the exchanging data packets and executed task in
details




                                      65
